 # 바빌론

May the gods bless you, great Nebuchadnezzar, ruler of ancient Babylon!
고대 바빌론의 통치자, 위대한 네부카드네자르여, 신들의 축복이 있기를!

Built 5000 years ago,
바빌론은 5천년 전에 건설되었고,

Babylon emerged as an empire in 1800 BC, thanks to godlike Hammurabi, The Giver of Law.
기원전 1800년에는 법전을 만드신 신성한 함무라비 왕의 은덕으로 제국으로 부상했습니다.

Falling under the Kassites assaults then the Assyrian domination, Babylon was reborn from its ashes, gaining back its independance,
비록 카시트인에게 짓밟히고 아시리아인의 지배를 겪었지만, 바빌론은 잿더미에서 독립하여 고대 세계에서 예술과 학문의 봉화로 재탄생했습니다.

and became the beacon for Arts and Learning in the ancient world.


O Nebuchadnezzar, after your death, Babylon quickly fell, conquered by the mighty Persians, and then by the Greeks, until the great city disappeared forever in 141 BC.
네부카드네자르여, 그대가 세상을 떠난 후 바빌론은 빠르게 쇠락하여 강대한 페르시아와 그리스에 정복당하고, 기원전 141년에는 위대한 바빌론 시 자체가 사라졌습니다.

Great Nebuchadnezzar, Babylon's glory still lives through you and your people.
위대한 네부카드네자르여, 바빌론의 영광은 여전히 그대와 백성들 안에 살아있습니다.

Will you create a spark to enlighten the world again? Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
세계를 다시금 깨우칠 빛으로서, 그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 그리스

Great King Alexander, leader of the mighty Greek nation,
위대한 알렉산더 대왕이여. 그대는 강력한 그리스를 통치하는, 

you are truly blessed by the gods.
신들께 진정으로 축복받은 지도지입니다.

In 480 BC, quarrelsome city-states such as Athens, Sparta, Thebes, found a way to join their forces, allowing Greece to defeat the mighty Persia in the 5th century BC, both on land and sea.
도시 국가 아테네, 스파르타, 테베 등은 본래 대립하고 있었으나, 서로 힘을 합칠 방법을 찾아 기원전 5세기 강대국 페르시아를 육상과 해상에서 막아냈습니다.

Following their example, you lead a Greek coalition and finally struck down the Persian Empire in 331 BC.
그대는 그들의 사례를 본받아 그리스 연합을 형성하여 기원전 331년 페르시아를 멸망시켰습니다.

You conquered almost all the known world, and from Europe to Africa to India, you built an empire unmatched by any before it.
그대는 유럽, 아프리카, 인도에 걸쳐 "알려진 세계" 의 거의 모든 영역을 점령함으로서 이전의 그 누구도 견줄 수 없는 대제국을 건설하였습니다.

Megalexandros, son of Zeus, will you ride Bucephalas again, to gift the world with the brightness of the Greek culture?
위대한 알렉산더여, 그대 제우스의 아들이여. 세상에 그리스 문화의 광명을 전하기 위해, 명마 부케팔로스에 다시 오르겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 중국

Heaven itself bends before your beauty, Empress Wu Zetian, ruler of eternal China!
영원한 중국의 통치자 측천무후여, 천지신명이 그대의 수려함 앞에 조아립니다!

You lead one of the oldest and greatest civilization of humanity.
그대는 인류 역사상 가장 유구하고 위대한 문명 중 하나의 지도자입니다.

In your time, China stood at the forefront of science and technology, bringing the world such contributions as gunpowder, the printing press, and the world of Confucius, and this, long before the rest of the world was mature enough to make the same discoveries!
그대의 시대에 중국은 과학과 기술의 최첨단에 있었으며, 미숙하고 미개한 전 세계에 화약 인쇄술 유교 등을 선사하였습니다!

Great Queen, can you make China prevail again, using your divine intelligence and beauty?
위대한 여제여, 그대의 거룩한 지혜와 아름다움으로써, 중국이 다시 승리할 수 있도록 이끌어주시겠습니까?

China stands for greatness, and all its enemies will be dazzled soon enough!
중국이란 곧 위대함이요, 모든 적은 그 찬란함에 매혹될 것입니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 이집트

O great Ramesses, Pharaoh of Egypt, bright as the Sun and mighty as the Nile!
오, 뜨거운 태양처럼 눈부시고 흐르는 나일 강처럼 힘찬 이집트의 파라오, 위대한 람세스여!

Lord of all living things, you lead the greatest of all civilizations, which has gifted the world with writing, advanced mathematics, sculpture, and architecture.
생명있는 모든 것들의 영장이여, 그대가 다스리는 가장 위대한 문명은 문자, 고급 수학, 조각, 건축을 세상에 선사하였습니다.

Egyptian monuments and culture will continue to amaze the world for thousands of years.
이집트의 유적과 문화는 수천 년간 세계의 경탄을 자아낼 것입니다.

Mighty and eternal Ramesses, Egypt lasted for millenia, whereas other civilisations disappeared into dust after a few centuries.
강력하고 영원한 람세스여, 다른 문명들이 몇 세기 만에 멸하는 와중에도 이집트는 몇천 년을 견디었습니다.

Amun-Ra blesses you again to lead Egypt and its people on the path of light.
아문 라께서 다시 한번 축복을 내리시어 그대로 하여금 이집트 국민을 빛의 길로 인도케 하십니다.

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 영국

Long live to Your Highness, Queen Elizabeth Gloriana, leader and protector of the glorious England!
영광스러운 잉글랜드의 지도자이자 수호자인 엘리자베스 글로리아나 여왕 폐하 만세!

Through history, enduring many invasions, England strengthened its will, playing smartly with diplomacy, cunning, and military power, to eventually rose as one of the most dominant Empires the world has ever known.
역사를 통틀어 수많은 외침을 견뎌낸 영국은 외교, 지략, 군사력에 기반한 굳은 의지를 통해 결국 세계에서 가장 지배적인 제국 중 하나로 올라섰습니다.

Their matchless navy, brilliant scientists and artists, and powerful merchants, have shaped the known world for centuries.
영국의 무적의 해군, 뛰어난 과학자와 예술가, 강력한 상인들은 수 세기 동안 세상을 빚어냈습니다.

Queen Elizabeth, will England cast once more its brightness upon all lands and seas of the world?
엘리자베스 여왕 폐하, 영국은 모든 땅과 물에서 다시 한번 찬란하게 빛날 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 프랑스

Vive Napoleon I, First Consul and Emperor of France!
프랑스의 초대 영사이자 황제였던 나폴레옹 1세 만세!

After the glorious Revolution which suppressed the centuries-old monarchy, the French nation stood at the heart of Europe as a Republic, and intended to export its ideals to the entire European continent, either by diplomacy or war.
수세기에 걸친 군주제를 무너뜨린 영광스러운 혁명 이후, 프랑스는 공화국으로서 유럽의 중심에 우뚝 섰고, 외교와 전쟁을 통해 유럽 대륙 전체에 자신들의 이상을 전파하고자 했습니다.

The French Capital Paris was more than ever the world center of Culture, Arts, and Letters.
프랑스의 수도 파리는 그 어느 때보다 문화, 예술, 문학의 세계 중심지였습니다.

With its Great Army, reputed as one of the greatest in the History, France fought gloriously all surrounding enemies, but eventually fell against the coalition of other European powers.
역사상 가장 위대한 군대 중 하나로 평가받는 대군을 보유한 프랑스는 주변의 모든 적과 맞서 싸웠지만, 결국 다른 유럽 열강들의 연합군에게 패하고 말았습니다.

Napoleon Bonaparte, ruler of the French people, will you rebuild the Empire to take revenge on your foes, and make again of its Capital the City of Lights?
프랑스 국민의 통치자 나폴레옹 보나파르트, 당신은 적에게 복수하기 위해 제국을 재건하고 수도를 다시 빛의 도시로 만들 것입니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 러시아

Hail to Imperial Majesty Catherine, Empress of all Russians.
모든 러시아인의 황후, 캐서린 황후 폐하 만세!

Living in the largest country in the world, from the Pacific Ocean in the east to the Baltic Sea in the west, your people endured wars, droughts, and many disasters, imbuing the Russian society with heroism and tenacity, and producing artists and scientists among the best in the world.
동쪽의 태평양에서 서쪽의 발트해에 이르는 세계에서 가장 큰 나라에 살고 있는 러시아 국민은 전쟁과 가뭄, 수많은 재난을 견디며 러시아 사회에 영웅주의와 끈기를 불어넣고 세계 최고 수준의 예술가와 과학자를 배출했습니다.

Russia is a powerful empire which rightfully claims its place in the world concert of superpowers.
러시아는 세계 강대국들의 경쟁에서 당당히 자신의 자리를 차지한 강력한 제국입니다.

Empress Catherine, your people are eager for Russian glory, to revive the sacred light of the Motherland.
캐서린 황후, 당신의 국민은 러시아의 영광과 조국의 신성한 빛을 되살리기를 열망하고 있습니다.

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 로마

Ave Caesar Augustus, Emperor of Rome and Dominus of the Roman Empire!
로마의 황제이자 로마 제국의 도미누스, 아베 카이사르 아우구스투스!

Your empire was the most powerful and feared of all in Western civilization.
당신의 제국은 서양 문명에서 가장 강력하고 두려운 존재였습니다.

The Roman people crafted so brilliantly its culture, law, art, and warfare, that no one could contest the supremacy of Rome.
로마 사람들은 문화, 법, 예술, 전쟁을 훌륭하게 발전시켰기 때문에 그 누구도 로마의 패권에 이의를 제기할 수 없었습니다.

Force and Honor led to glorious conquests, a domination of all the lands from Spain in the west to Syria in the east, even reaching the remote barbarian lands of England and Germany.
무력과 명예를 바탕으로 서쪽의 스페인에서 동쪽의 시리아까지 모든 땅을 정복하고 멀리 떨어진 야만인의 땅 영국과 독일까지 지배하는 영광스러운 정복을 이루었습니다.

Roman art and architecture have been praised for millenia and have been envied by all lesser civilizations who have followed.
로마의 예술과 건축은 수천 년 동안 찬사를 받았으며, 그 뒤를 이은 모든 약소 문명들의 부러움을 샀습니다.

O glorious Imperator, your people celebrate you and ask for the glory of Rome!
영광스러운 황제이시여, 당신의 백성들은 당신을 찬양하며 로마의 영광을 요구합니다!

In these times of darkness, the Pax Romana will be a beacon of light for all!
이 암흑의 시대에 팍스 로마나는 모두에게 빛의 등불이 될 것입니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?






 # 아라비아

Blessings of the Great God be upon you, O great caliph Harun al-Rashid, leader of the mighty Arabian people!
위대한 아라비아 민족의 지도자, 위대한 칼리프 하룬 알 라시드에게 위대한 신의 축복이 함께하시기를!

The Muslim Empire, the Caliphate, born from chaos after the death of the prophet Muhammad in 632 AD, intended to apply the rule of God to all Earth.
서기 632년 예언자 무함마드가 죽은 후 혼란 속에서 탄생한 이슬람 제국, 칼리프는 온 땅에 신의 통치를 적용하고자 했습니다.

And by the will of God, the caliphate reached its full power, ruling Spain, North Africa, the Middle East, Anatolia, the Balkans and Persia, to even surpass the Great Roman Empire.
그리고 신의 뜻에 따라 칼리프는 스페인, 북아프리카, 중동, 아나톨리아, 발칸 반도, 페르시아를 통치하며 대제국 로마를 능가하는 권력을 갖게 되었습니다.

The arts and sciences were a holy gift of Arabia during the Middle Ages, as the infidel lands of Europe delved deep into ignorance and chaos.
이교도였던 유럽의 땅이 무지와 혼돈에 빠져 있던 중세 시대에 예술과 과학은 아라비아의 신성한 선물이었습니다.

Lasting for six hundred years, the Caliphate finally fell before the Mongols, the plague of the civilized world.
600년 동안 지속된 칼리프 왕국은 마침내 문명 세계의 역병인 몽골에 의해 무너졌습니다.

Great Caliph Harun al Rashid, all Arabian people long for greatness!
위대한 칼리프 하룬 알 라시드, 모든 아라비아 사람들은 위대함을 갈망합니다!

Arabia must be once again the land of arts and knowledge, which under the radiant law of God, will fear no enemy!
아라비아는 다시 한 번 신의 빛나는 법 아래서 그 어떤 적도 두려워하지 않는 예술과 지식의 땅이 되어야 합니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 미국

President Washington, we salute you and the proud American civilization!
워싱턴 대통령님, 당신과 자랑스러운 미국 문명에 경의를 표합니다!

Freed from the British dominion in the 18th century, then cleansed and reborn after a terrible civil war, the United States nation was ready to play its great role in the 20th century.
18세기 영국의 지배에서 해방된 후 끔찍한 내전을 거쳐 깨끗이 정화하고 다시 태어난 미국은 20세기에 위대한 역할을 할 준비가 되어 있었습니다.

At the height of its power, triumphant after two terrible world wars, United States of America, a land of immigration, opportunities, optimism and determination, has risen above all other weakening nations, unable to equal such power.
두 차례의 끔찍한 세계대전을 승리로 이끈 미국은 이민과 기회, 낙관주의와 결단력의 나라로, 그 힘이 절정에 달했을 때 다른 어떤 약소국도 넘볼 수 없는 강대국으로 우뚝 섰습니다.

President Washington, will you show to the world the legitimacy of the American way of life, and spread the flame of liberty to all mankind?
워싱턴 대통령님, 미국식 삶의 방식의 정당성을 전 세계에 보여주고 전 인류에게 자유의 불꽃을 퍼뜨리시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 일본

Lord Oda Nobunaga, ruler of Japan, the land of the Rising Sun is at your command!
떠오르는 태양의 나라 일본의 통치자 오다 노부나가 경, 당신의 명령을 받들겠습니다!

Through history, Japanese people lived and died with honor, proud of their rich culture of arts and letters.
역사를 통틀어 일본인들은 풍부한 예술과 문자의 문화를 자랑스럽게 여기며 명예롭게 살다가 죽었습니다.

Years of bloody civil wars, invasions of foreign powers, wealth but also great poverty, have never altered the strong will of the Rising Sun island, as the Bushido spirit has imbued the fields of battle and the Japanese society for millenia.
수년간의 피비린내 나는 내전, 외세의 침략, 부와 극심한 가난도 수천 년 동안 전장과 일본 사회에 스며든 무사도 정신처럼 떠오르는 태양의 섬의 강한 의지를 바꾸지 못했습니다.

At the end of the 19th century, under foreign influence, your people took the path of modernity, and in a few decades, made of Japan a land of technological innovation and powerful industry, with which only few nations can compete.
19세기 말, 외국의 영향 아래서 일본인들은 근대의 길을 걸었고, 수십 년 만에 일본을 기술 혁신과 강력한 산업의 땅으로 만들었으며, 이는 소수의 국가만이 경쟁할 수 있습니다.

O great daimyo, will you take on your hands the Japan destiny, for the Rising Sun to light the world?
위대한 다이묘여, 떠오르는 태양이 세상을 밝힐 수 있도록 일본의 운명을 당신의 손에 맡기시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 인도

Wise Mahatma Gandhi, great leader of India, we honor you!
인도의 위대한 지도자, 현명한 마하트마 간디, 당신을 존경합니다!

India is one of the oldest countries in the world with 10,000 years of history, built on spirit and religion, as three of the world's great religions - Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism - appeared on this sacred land.
인도는 세계에서 가장 오래된 1만 년의 역사를 가진 나라 중 하나이며, 힌두교, 불교, 자이나교 등 세계 3대 종교가 이 신성한 땅에서 출현한 정신과 종교를 바탕으로 세워진 나라입니다.

Every aspect of India society reveres art, music and color, showing great wealth but also grinding poverty.
인도 사회는 예술, 음악, 색채를 숭상하며 막대한 부와 지독한 가난을 동시에 보여줍니다.

For centuries, India was torn between local kingdoms fighting each other but also repelling invaders.
수세기 동안 인도는 지역 왕국들이 서로 싸우기도 하고 침략자를 물리치기도 하며 갈등을 겪었습니다.

In the 12th century AD, Muslim Turks tried to conquer India, then the Mongols took their place.
서기 12세기에는 무슬림 투르크족이 인도를 정복하려 했지만 몽골이 그 자리를 차지했습니다.

In the early 17th century, India, still fragmented, was colonized by the English and their diplomacy and technological superiority.
17세기 초, 여전히 분열된 상태였던 인도는 외교력과 기술적 우위를 앞세운 영국에 의해 식민지가 되었습니다.

After two centuries of British dominion, Indian nationalism woke up, and you, Great Mahatma, have led a peaceful and victorious rebellion never seen anywhere in history!
2세기에 걸친 영국의 지배 끝에 인도의 민족주의가 깨어났고, 위대한 마하트마는 역사상 유례가 없는 평화로운 반란을 이끌었습니다!

Gandhi, your people ask again to be led on the path of freedom.
간디, 당신의 국민들은 다시 자유의 길로 인도해 달라고 요청합니다.

Under protection of Ganesha and Surya, can India accomplish its great potential?
가네샤와 수리야의 보호 아래 인도가 위대한 잠재력을 발휘할 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 독일

All hail to Otto von Bismarck, first chancellor of Germany and its empire!
독일과 독일 제국의 초대 총리인 오토 폰 비스마르크에게 만세를!

During the ancient era, Germany was a land fragmented in several tribes but already showed great promise as the Roman Empire itself struggled to bend the Germans to its will.
고대 시대에 독일은 여러 부족으로 분열된 땅이었지만, 로마 제국이 독일인들을 자신의 뜻대로 굴복시키기 위해 고군분투하면서 이미 큰 가능성을 보였습니다.

Germany, as one nation, was slowly built on the ruins of the Holy Roman Empire, and waited 1871 to be finally unified after the glorious victory on France and Napoleon III.
독일은 하나의 국가로서 신성 로마 제국의 폐허 위에 서서히 건설되었고, 1871년 프랑스와 나폴레옹 3세와의 전쟁에서 영광스러운 승리를 거둔 후 마침내 통일을 이루었습니다.

The German people are creative, intelligent, industrious and proven to be talented warriors through history.
독일 국민은 창의적이고 총명하며 부지런하고 역사를 통해 유능한 전사로 입증되었습니다.

Despite great catastrophes and failures in the first half of the 20th century, Germany can always rely on its people will and strength to be among the greatest and powerful nations in the world.
20세기 전반기에 큰 재앙과 실패를 겪었음에도 불구하고 독일은 국민의 의지와 힘을 바탕으로 세계에서 가장 위대하고 강력한 국가 중 하나가 될 수 있었습니다.

Great Prince Bismarck, glory and power are at the heart of the German nation.
위대한 비스마르크 왕자님, 영광과 힘은 독일 국가의 핵심입니다.

Your people are bright, and lend you their iron will to lead Germany once again.
독일 국민은 영리하며 독일을 다시 한 번 이끌 철의 의지를 가지고 있습니다.

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 오스만

O Great Sultan Suleiman, may the God bless you!
술레이만 대 술탄이여, 신의 가호가 있기를!

You are revered for your power, wealth and generosity, and you truly deserves to be called the 'Magnificent'!
당신은 권력과 부와 관대함으로 존경받으며, 진정으로 '장엄한 자'라고 불릴 자격이 있습니다!

The Ottoman Empire was born in Bithynia, starting as a small country in Eastern Anatolia in 12th century, then expanded to west into Anatolia.
오스만 제국은 12세기 동부 아나톨리아의 작은 나라 비티니아에서 탄생한 후 서쪽으로 아나톨리아로 영토를 확장했습니다.

Over the next century, your people vanquished the empire of Byzantium, annexing Turkey and the Balkans, and smartly assimilating all wonders and knowledge of the Byzantine civilization.
다음 세기에 걸쳐 비잔티움 제국을 정복하고 터키와 발칸 반도를 합병하고 비잔틴 문명의 모든 경이로움과 지식을 현명하게 동화시켰습니다.

In the mid 15th century, the Ottomans added Constantinople to their empire, establishing a strategic link between Europe and the Middle East.
15세기 중반, 오스만 제국은 콘스탄티노플을 제국에 추가하여 유럽과 중동을 잇는 전략적 연결고리를 구축했습니다.

The Empire would continue to expand for centuries reaching North Africa, Middle East and Eastern Europe at its height, but brutally disappeared in the chaos of the first world war, in early 20th century.
오스만 제국은 수 세기 동안 계속 확장되어 북아프리카, 중동, 동유럽에 이르는 전성기를 누렸지만, 20세기 초 제1차 세계대전의 혼란 속에서 잔인하게 사라졌습니다.

Mighty Caliph, your people ask you to build again the Empire, to the level of power and glory it once achieved, and beyond!
강력한 칼리프, 당신의 백성들은 당신에게 제국을 다시 건설하여 과거와 같은 수준의 권력과 영광을 되찾아 달라고 요청합니다!

Will you revive the Ottoman golden age?
오스만 제국의 황금기를 되살리시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 한국

Greetings to you, King Sejong the Great, heir of the Choson Dynasty!
조선 왕조의 후계자, 세종대왕이시여!

Prosperity and benevolence towards the common man are the principles of your reign, and made of you the most beloved Korean king.
번영과 백성을 향한 자애로움은 당신의 통치 원칙이었고, 당신을 가장 사랑받는 조선의 왕으로 만들었습니다.

You always aimed to provide a fair and equal society for all your people, and also to favor knowledge and technological discoveries.
당신은 항상 모든 백성에게 공정하고 평등한 사회를 제공하고 지식과 기술 발견을 장려하는 것을 목표로 삼았습니다.

Your wisdom and intelligence imbued all the Korean society, and the scholars of the Jade Hall developed Korea's first written language, Hangul, sharing further literature and science to the people after centuries of darkness.
당신의 지혜와 지성은 한국 사회 전체에 스며들었고, 옥중의 선비들은 한국 최초의 문자인 한글을 개발하여 수백 년의 암흑기를 지나 백성들에게 더 많은 문학과 과학을 전했습니다.

Wise Sejong, will you gift your people with the radiance of harmony and knowledge to dispel the darkness once again?
현명한 세종, 다시 한 번 백성들에게 화합과 지식의 빛을 선물하여 어둠을 몰아내 주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 이로쿼이

Greetings, noble Hiawatha, leader of the mighty Iroquois nations!
강대한 이로쿼이 부족의 지도자, 고귀한 히아와타 족장님, 반갑습니다!

Your people lived near the great and holy lake Ontario since the ancient ages, on a land that will be later known as New York city.
당신의 민족은 고대부터 위대하고 성스러운 온타리오 호수 근처, 훗날 뉴욕시로 알려지게 될 땅에서 살았습니다.

Long ago, the five peoples of Seneca, Onondaga, Mohawks, Cayugas and Oneida became one nation, the Haudenosaunee, the Iroquois.
오래 전 세네카, 오논다가, 모호크, 카유가스, 오네이다의 다섯 부족이 하나의 국가, 즉 아이로쿼이족인 하우데노사우니가 되었습니다.

Although not having a written language, the wise Iroquois created the Great Law of Peace, which can be considered the first established constitution.
문자는 없었지만 현명한 이로쿼이족은 최초의 확립된 헌법이라고 할 수 있는 대평화법을 만들었습니다.

For decades, your people fought powerful enemies, such as the Huron, and then the French and English colonists.
수십 년 동안 이로쿼이족은 휴런족과 프랑스, 영국 식민지 개척자 등 강력한 적과 싸웠습니다.

With less warriors and inferior weaponry, the Iroquois still survived and walk on the path of peace and harmony, until their way of living faded away under the crush of the newborn United States nation.
전사 수가 적고 무기도 열악했지만 이로쿼이족은 살아남아 평화와 화합의 길을 걸어왔지만, 신생 국가인 미국의 압제 아래 그들의 삶의 방식은 사라져 버렸습니다.

Great Sachem Hiawatha, do you hear the complaints of your people?
위대한 사켐 히아와타, 당신 백성들의 불만이 들리나요?

Can you light the path leading to the ancient Iroquois union?
고대 이로쿼이 연합으로 이어지는 길을 밝혀주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 페르시아

Great King Darius of Persia, the heaven casts its light upon you!
페르시아의 대왕 다리우스, 하늘이 당신에게 빛을 비추나이다!

Persian people are strong and wise, as their leader.
페르시아 사람들은 강인하고 현명한 지도자 다리우스를 존경합니다.

In old ages, the great Persian king Cyrus fought back the mighty Median empire and finally destroyed the Medes in 550 BC.
고대 페르시아의 위대한 왕 키루스는 강력한 메디아 제국에 맞서 싸웠고, 마침내 기원전 550년에 메디아를 멸망시켰습니다.

Cunning diplomacy and military achievements helped then to conquer the wealthy Lydia and the powerful Babylon, Cyrus' son conquering the eternal Egypt some years later.
교활한 외교와 군사적 성과로 부유한 리디아를 정복하고 강력한 바빌론을 정복한 키루스는 몇 년 후 영원한 이집트를 정복했습니다.

At the height of its power, the Persian Empire reached the shores of Macedonia, at the very door of the upstart Greek city-states.
페르시아 제국의 힘이 절정에 달했을 때, 페르시아 제국은 신생 그리스 도시 국가들의 문턱인 마케도니아 해안에 도달했습니다.

Persia would have prospered for centuries if Alexander of Macedon hadn't brutally destroyed the great empire in one violent strike.
마케도니아의 알렉산더가 한 번의 격렬한 공격으로 대제국을 잔인하게 파괴하지 않았다면 페르시아는 수세기 동안 번영을 누렸을 것입니다.

King Darius, the people of Persia await, longing for its past glory and power!
다리우스 왕, 페르시아의 백성들은 과거의 영광과 힘을 그리워하며 기다리고 있습니다!

Persia of the Immortals must reborn, to punish its foes and rebuild the gleaming Persepolis!
불멸의 페르시아는 다시 태어나 적들을 응징하고 빛나는 페르세폴리스를 재건해야 합니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 폴리네시아

Aloha to Kamehameha the Great, who the heavens allowed to unite your people!
하늘이 당신의 백성을 통합하도록 허락하신 카메하메하 대왕께 알로하를!

O great King, under your reign, the Big Island of Hawai'i became one in 1791 AD, and many other islands joined your vision of union in 1810.
위대한 왕이시여, 당신의 통치 아래 하와이의 빅 아일랜드는 서기 1791년에 하나가 되었고, 1810년에는 다른 많은 섬들이 당신의 통합 비전에 동참했습니다.

As the first King of Hawai'i, law and taxation systems were stabilized, and you promoted the Mamalahoe Kawanai, an edict to protect civilian people in times of war.
하와이의 초대 왕으로서 법과 조세 제도를 안정시켰고, 전쟁 시 민간인을 보호하기 위한 칙령인 마말라호에 카와나이 칙령을 추진하셨습니다.

Unification and sovereignty of all the islands continued thanks to your fair laws and deeds, even after you joined your ancestors in paradise in 1819.
1819년 선조들과 함께 낙원에 입적한 후에도 왕의 공정한 법과 행동 덕분에 모든 섬의 통일과 주권은 계속 유지되었습니다.

Wise and benevolent King, will you unite your people once again by wearing the bright mantle of the Lion of the Pacific?
현명하고 자애로운 왕이시여, 태평양의 사자라는 밝은 망토를 입고 다시 한 번 국민을 통합해 주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 시암

O Great King Ramkhamhaeng, the Siamese people obey you with respect and fear!
람캄행 대왕이시여, 시암 백성들은 존경과 두려움으로 대왕께 복종합니다!

The beautiful and mysterious land of Siam is an ancient country in the heart of Southeast Asia, which was besieged by many foes, plagued by bloody war and great poverty, but eventually the smart and loyal Siamese people have endured and triumphed.
아름답고 신비로운 땅 시암은 동남아시아의 중심부에 위치한 고대 국가로, 많은 적들에게 포위되어 피비린내 나는 전쟁과 극심한 가난에 시달렸지만 결국 영리하고 충성스러운 시암 사람들은 인내하고 승리했습니다.

Siam was a part of the Khmer Empire until the 13th century AD, before its brave people took arms and led a revolution to form the small Sukhothai kingdom.
서기 13세기까지 크메르 제국의 일부였던 시암은 용감한 사람들이 무기를 들고 혁명을 일으켜 작은 수코타이 왕국을 세우기 전까지 크메르 제국의 일부였습니다.

After many battles and diplomacy prowess, this tiny kingdom became a mighty empire, which would dominate South East Asia for more than a century.
수많은 전투와 뛰어난 외교력을 바탕으로 이 작은 왕국은 한 세기 이상 동남아시아를 지배하는 강력한 제국이 되었습니다.

Wise and powerful King Ramkhamhaeng, your people want to revive these days of glory!
현명하고 강력한 람캄행 왕, 당신의 백성들은 영광의 시대를 되살리고 싶어 합니다!

Can you make a new dawn break on Siam?
시암에 새로운 새벽을 열 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 스페인

Holy Isabella, envoy of God, Great Queen of Castille and León, your people celebrate you!
카스티야와 레온의 위대한 여왕이자 신의 사신인 성스러운 이사벨라, 당신의 백성들이 당신을 축하합니다!

Spain is a beautiful and ancient country, a link between Europe and Africa, one shore on the Mediterranean and the other on the mighty Atlantic Ocean.
스페인은 유럽과 아프리카를 잇는 아름다운 고대 국가로, 한쪽 해안은 지중해에, 다른 한쪽 해안은 거대한 대서양에 접해 있습니다.

The Spanish culture had taken the best of the Christian and Muslim worlds, and was ready to dominate the world for centuries.
스페인 문화는 기독교와 이슬람 세계의 장점을 받아들여 수 세기 동안 세계를 지배할 준비가 되어 있었습니다.

Powerful Spanish military fleets and brave explorers found and conquered much of the New World.
강력한 스페인 함대와 용감한 탐험가들이 신대륙의 대부분을 발견하고 정복했습니다.

Exploiting a whole new continent and its riches, Spain reached a state of power few could compete with for hundreds of years.
완전히 새로운 대륙과 그곳의 부를 개척한 스페인은 수백 년 동안 누구도 따라올 수 없는 강대국이 되었습니다.

O splendid and virtuous Isabella!
훌륭하고 고결한 이사벨라!

By the will of the heavens, will Spain reborn to achieve its holy destiny and become a new El Dorado?
하늘의 뜻에 따라 스페인은 다시 태어나 신성한 운명을 성취하고 새로운 엘도라도가 될까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 송가이

Askia, leader of the Songhai people and greatest of all, may God watch your path towards glory!
송하이 민족의 지도자이자 누구보다 위대한 아스키아, 영광을 향한 당신의 길을 하나님께서 지켜보시길!

Songhai was under the rule of the mighty West African state of Mali until the middle of the 14th century.
송하이는 14세기 중반까지 서아프리카의 강력한 국가 말리의 통치하에 있었습니다.

Great King Sunni Ali Ber fought for independance, and showed to all Songhai's power, by conquering territories and repelling many foes who sought to destroy the rising kingdom.
수니파 알리 베르 대왕은 독립을 위해 싸웠고, 영토를 정복하고 떠오르는 왕국을 파괴하려는 많은 적을 격퇴함으로써 송하이의 힘을 모든 사람들에게 보여줬어요.

Ultimately, conquest of the wealthy cities of Timbuktu and Jenne made Songhai an empire with enough economic power to survive for a century, until the empire bowed down before foes with advanced technology - muskets against spearmen.
궁극적으로 부유한 도시인 팀북투와 젠을 정복한 송하이는 한 세기 동안 생존할 수 있는 경제력을 갖춘 제국이 되었지만, 창병에 대항하는 소총이라는 첨단 기술을 가진 적들 앞에 무릎을 꿇고 말았죠.

King Askia, your people know there's still hope, that the hour of revenge is coming.
아스키아 왕, 당신의 백성들은 아직 희망이 있고 복수의 시간이 다가오고 있다는 것을 알고 있습니다.

Give them wealth and power, give them mighty weapons of iron and fire, to destroy any foe, for Songhai to revive!
송하이가 부활할 수 있도록 부와 권력을 주시고, 강력한 철과 불의 무기로 적을 물리칠 수 있게 해주세요!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 몽골

O great Temuujin, immortal leader of the mighty Mongol Empire!
위대한 몽골 제국의 불멸의 지도자 테무진이여!

Your name alone was enough to make cities crumble, and the sound of the mighty Mongol cavalry to make your enemies flee!
당신의 이름만으로도 도시가 무너지고 강력한 몽골 기병대 소리가 적을 도망치게 만들었습니다!

O Great Khan!
오 위대한 칸이여!

Once Northern Asia united into a mighty people, producing one of the greatest armies the world has ever known, your skillful mounted archers conquered in only a few years, most of China, Eastern Asia, and even reached the gates of Europe at the West.
북아시아가 강력한 민족으로 통합되어 세계에서 가장 위대한 군대 중 하나를 생산하자, 당신의 숙련 된 기마 궁수는 불과 몇 년 만에 중국과 동아시아의 대부분을 정복하고 서쪽의 유럽 문에까지 도달했습니다.

With cunning diplomacy and brilliant warfare, you swept your enemies one after another, creating the greatest empire ever seen, reducing Roman or Greek conquests to minor achievements.
교활한 외교와 화려한 전쟁으로 적을 차례로 물리치고 역사상 가장 위대한 제국을 건설하여 로마나 그리스의 정복을 작은 성과로 줄였습니다.

Divine Temuujin, battles and conquests run through the veins of the Mongols.
신성한 테무진, 전투와 정복은 몽골의 혈맥을 관통합니다.

Are you ready to shatter the will of your enemies?
적의 의지를 꺾을 준비가 되셨나요?

Will your cavalry ride in the steppes once again and strike as lightning and thunder?
기병대가 다시 한 번 대초원을 타고 번개와 천둥처럼 공격할까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 아즈텍

O divine Montezuma, your people welcome you!
오, 신성한 몬테주마, 당신의 백성들이 당신을 환영합니다!

May your magnificence inspire all living things!
당신의 장엄함이 모든 생명체에게 영감을 주기를!

The mighty Aztecs were nomads until the 12th century, when they choose to settle in the mesa central, which would later be called Mexico.
강력한 아즈텍인들은 12세기까지 유목민이었지만, 이후 멕시코라고 불리게 된 메사 중앙에 정착하기로 결정했습니다.

Wars were frequent with other tribes to control the rich land surrounding the sacred lakes of Texcoco, Xaltocan and Zampango.
텍스코코, 살토칸, 잠팡고의 신성한 호수 주변의 풍요로운 땅을 차지하기 위해 다른 부족과 전쟁이 빈번하게 일어났어요.

In some 200 years, double-sided alliances and martial prowess made of the Aztecs the dominant power in the Central American basin, forming a mighty empire stretching from sea to sea.
약 200년 동안 아즈텍은 양면 동맹과 무술 실력으로 중앙아메리카 유역의 지배 세력이 되었고, 바다에서 바다로 뻗어나가는 강력한 제국을 형성했습니다.

Alas, the empire fell under the assault of foreign devils - the Spaniards and many curses they brought with them!
아쉽게도 이 제국은 스페인과 그들이 가져온 많은 저주라는 외적의 공격으로 무너졌어요!

Wars between tribes and weaponry of doom used by the invaders made the great Aztec civilization crumble in only a few decades.
부족 간의 전쟁과 침략자들이 사용한 파멸의 무기로 인해 위대한 아즈텍 문명은 불과 수십 년 만에 무너졌습니다.

O mighty King Montezuma, do you hear the call of your people seeking for revenge?
강력한 몬테주마 왕이여, 복수를 원하는 백성들의 부름을 들으셨나요?

Will you lead them to victory under the light of the Five Suns?
다섯 태양의 빛 아래서 그들을 승리로 이끌겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 잉카

King Pachacuti Sapa Inca, maker of the world and ruler of Tawantinsuyu and the Inca people, your loyal subjects greet you!
세상의 창조자이자 타완틴수유와 잉카인의 통치자 파차쿠티 사파 잉카 왕, 충성스러운 신하들이 여러분을 맞이합니다!

In the beginning, the small state of Cusco already showed the Incans were promised for greatness.
처음에 쿠스코의 작은 주에서 잉카인들은 이미 위대함을 약속받았습니다.

They won many wars against powerful enemies, relentlessly crushing any army that dared oppose them, and forged a mighty empire stretching from Ecuador to Chile, the greatest ever seen in pre-Columbian America.
잉카인들은 강력한 적과의 전쟁에서 수많은 승리를 거두며 감히 자신들에게 대항하는 군대를 가차 없이 분쇄했고, 에콰도르에서 칠레에 이르는 강력한 제국을 건설하여 콜럼버스 이전 아메리카 역사상 가장 위대한 제국을 건설했습니다.

Not just undaunted soldiers, Inca people were accomplished builders and artists, their magnificient and unequalled culture still fascinating the world today.
잉카인들은 용맹한 군인이었을 뿐만 아니라 뛰어난 건축가이자 예술가였으며, 그들의 웅장하고 독보적인 문화는 오늘날까지도 전 세계를 매료시키고 있습니다.

O Emperor Pachacuti, honor your name of 'Earth Shaker'!
파차쿠티 황제님, '대지를 흔드는 자'라는 당신의 이름에 영광을 돌립니다!

Will you once again summon the power of the earth to unite all Incan people under the protection of Sapa Inca, the Son of the Sun?
태양의 아들 사파 잉카의 보호 아래 모든 잉카인들을 하나로 묶기 위해 다시 한 번 대지의 힘을 소환해 주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 덴마크

Skal, Harald Bluetooth Gormsson, son of King Gorm of the Old and Thyra Dannebod!
스칼, 옛 곰 왕과 티라 단네보드의 아들인 하랄드 블루투스 곰손!

After crushing the armies of Norway, you achieved great construction projects all across the land of mighty Denmark.
노르웨이 군대를 격파한 후, 당신은 강력한 덴마크 땅 곳곳에 거대한 건설 프로젝트를 완수했습니다.

Numerous Ring Fortresses were built under your reign to protect the people from foreign invasions, but also from local quarrels.
당신의 통치 기간 동안 수많은 링 요새를 건설하여 외세의 침략과 지역 분쟁으로부터 국민을 보호했습니다.

In 983 AD, you successfully repelled several waves of German settlers trying to colonize your land, and then always kept your kingdom free from any foreign pressure.
서기 983년, 당신은 당신의 땅을 식민지로 삼으려는 독일 정착민들을 성공적으로 물리쳤고, 그 후에도 항상 왕국을 외세의 압력으로부터 자유롭게 지켜냈습니다.

As a true Viking, who knows not fear, time has come to unleash mighty armies of Northsmen to bring despair upon your enemies!
두려움을 모르는 진정한 바이킹으로서, 이제 강력한 북부 군대를 풀어 적에게 절망을 안겨줄 때가 왔습니다!

By the will of the Gods, it will be either a glorious triumph or a sumptuous feast in the Valhalla!
신의 뜻에 따라 영광스러운 승리가 되거나 발할라에서 호화로운 잔치가 될 것입니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 훈족

Great Attila, mighty warrior and leader of the Hunnic empire, your men bow down before you.
훈족 제국의 위대한 전사이자 지도자인 위대한 아틸라, 당신의 부하들이 당신 앞에 머리를 숙입니다.

During the 5th century, you and your brother Bleda have conquered many lands, forged a mighty empire and commanded the most powerful and frightening force of antiquity.
5세기 동안 당신과 당신의 형제 블레다는 많은 땅을 정복하고 강력한 제국을 건설했으며 고대 역사상 가장 강력하고 무시무시한 군대를 지휘했습니다.

You inspired fear to the Roman Emperors themselves, who called you 'Flagellum Dei', the 'Scourge of God', as you took kingdom after kingdom in the Balkans, invaded Eastern Roman Empire, into Gaul and Northern Italy, and planned to conquer Rome itself.
발칸 반도의 여러 왕국을 점령하고 동로마 제국과 갈리아, 북부 이탈리아를 침략하고 로마 자체를 정복할 계획을 세우면서 '신의 재앙'이라 불리는 '플래겔룸 데이'로 불렸던 로마 황제들에게 두려움을 불러일으켰습니다.

Your empire didn't survive long after your death, but your name and your legend have, for millenia to come.
당신의 제국은 당신이 죽은 후 오래 살아남지 못했지만, 당신의 이름과 전설은 수천 년 동안 이어져 왔습니다.

Fearsome General, your mighty hordes are at your command, waiting to crush your foes once again and to conquer all the riches the world has to offer!
무시무시한 장군, 당신의 강력한 군대가 다시 한 번 적을 무찌르고 세상의 모든 부를 정복하기 위해 당신의 명령을 기다리고 있습니다!

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 네덜란드

Greetings to the wise and brave Prince William of Orange, who freed the Netherlands and gave strength to the Dutch people.
네덜란드를 해방시키고 네덜란드 국민에게 힘을 준 현명하고 용감한 오렌지 왕자 윌리엄에게 인사를 전합니다.

In 1568, you led a rebellion against Spanish dominion, to gain freedom for your people, and therefore starting the Eighty Years' War.
1568년, 당신은 스페인의 지배에 맞서 반란을 일으켜 국민을 위한 자유를 얻고 80년 전쟁을 시작하셨습니다.

Your actions were all aimed to create one of Europe's first modern republics, the Seven United Provinces.
당신의 행동은 모두 유럽 최초의 근대 공화국 중 하나인 7개의 연합 주를 만들기 위한 것이었습니다.

The rebellion was the meaning of your very life and death, as it was also the cause of your assassination in 1584.
이 반란은 1584년 암살의 원인이기도 했기 때문에 당신의 삶과 죽음의 의미였습니다.

But your death has given even more pride and courage to your people, to fight for liberty against any oppressors.
하지만 당신의 죽음은 억압자에 맞서 자유를 위해 싸우는 국민들에게 더 큰 자부심과 용기를 주었습니다.

Carved in history as the 'Father of the Fatherland', your name is a symbol of Dutch independence for eternity.
'조국의 아버지'로 역사에 새겨진 당신의 이름은 영원히 네덜란드 독립의 상징이 될 것입니다.

Brave Prince, your people ask for your wisdom to gain its freedom once more, and to illuminate the world with progressive and modern ideas.
용감한 왕자님, 당신의 국민은 다시 한 번 자유를 얻고 진보적이고 현대적인 아이디어로 세상을 밝힐 수 있도록 당신의 지혜를 요청합니다.

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 스웨덴

All hail Great King Gustavus Adolphus, founder of the Swedish Empire, and one of the most famous military tacticians.
스웨덴 제국의 창시자이자 가장 유명한 군사 전술가 중 한 명인 구스타프 아돌프스 대왕에게 경의를 표합니다.

In the early 17th century, Sweden emerged as a great power in Europe under your reign, thanks to your wisdom, both in diplomacy and warfare.
17세기 초, 스웨덴은 외교와 전쟁 모두에서 당신의 지혜 덕분에 당신의 통치 아래 유럽에서 강대국으로 부상했습니다.

As king, you decided to reform Swedish laws to bring economic stability and prosperity to your people.
국왕으로서 당신은 스웨덴 법을 개혁하여 국민에게 경제적 안정과 번영을 가져다주기로 결정했습니다.

Your allies, and also your enemies, called you the 'Lion of the North', witnessing your modern vision of warfare, and the prowess of your armies on the battlefield.
당신의 동맹국들은 물론 적국들도 당신을 '북부의 사자'라고 부르며 전쟁에 대한 당신의 현대적인 비전과 전장에서의 군대의 능력을 목격했습니다.

As you triumphed in the Thirty Years' War, your name will be forever remembered as one of history's greatest generals.
30년 전쟁에서 승리를 거둔 당신의 이름은 역사상 가장 위대한 장군 중 한 명으로 영원히 기억될 것입니다.

O noble King, will you lend your leadership and brilliant ideas to Sweden once again, to conceive strategies never seen before?
고귀한 왕이시여, 당신의 리더십과 뛰어난 아이디어를 다시 한 번 스웨덴에 빌려주셔서 전에 없던 전략을 구상해 주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 오스트리아

Noble and pious Queen Maria Theresa, Holy Roman Empress and sovereign of Austria, the people revere your grace.
고귀하고 경건한 마리아 테레지아 여왕, 신성 로마 황후이자 오스트리아의 통치자, 국민은 당신의 은총을 존경합니다.

After the death of your father King Charles VI, you inherited the throne of Austria during difficult economic and military times.
아버지 찰스 6세 국왕이 돌아가신 후, 당신은 경제적으로나 군사적으로 어려운 시기에 오스트리아의 왕위를 물려받았습니다.

But you used your wisdom and unflinching determination to fend off your foes and resolve any obstacles to stability and prosperity.
그러나 당신은 지혜와 불굴의 결단력으로 적을 물리치고 안정과 번영의 장애물을 해결했습니다.

With your husband Francis Stephen at your side as co-ruler, you assured your place as Empress of the Holy Roman Empire.
남편 프란시스 슈테판과 함께 공동 통치자로서 신성 로마 제국의 황후 자리를 굳건히 지켰습니다.

During your reign, you reformed Austria in several domains, as you gifted it with a powerful army, a stable economic model, and an improved educational system.
통치 기간 동안 강력한 군대, 안정적인 경제 모델, 개선된 교육 시스템을 선물하면서 여러 영역에서 오스트리아를 개혁했습니다.

O Great Queen, proud and dignified, by the will of God and the Divine right, can you reach the height of prosperity and splendor the kingdom of Austria deserves?
위풍당당하고 위엄 있는 대왕대비, 신의 뜻과 신성한 권리로 오스트리아 왕국의 번영과 영광의 정점에 도달할 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 카르타고

Greetings to you, revered Queen Dido, ruler of the legendary kingdom of Carthage.
전설적인 카르타고 왕국의 통치자, 존경하는 디도 여왕님께 인사를 드립니다.

The great poet Virgil related your great history, how your husband Acerbas was murdered by your own brother, King Pygmalion of Tyre, to steal the treasures of your family that were rightfully yours.
위대한 시인 버질은 당신의 남편 아케르바스가 당신의 친형인 티레의 피그말리온 왕에게 살해당하고, 당신의 가문의 보물을 빼앗긴 당신의 위대한 역사에 대해 이야기했습니다.

But you endured his pressure until you and your compatriots decided to flee and sail for new lands.
하지만 당신은 그와 당신의 동포들이 새로운 땅으로 도망쳐 항해하기로 결정할 때까지 그의 압력을 견뎌냈습니다.

The gods led you to the shores of North Africa, and with cunning diplomacy, you expanded the territory of your new home, and laid the basis for the future kingdom of Carthage.
신들은 당신을 북아프리카 해안으로 인도했고, 당신은 교활한 외교를 통해 새로운 고향의 영토를 확장하고 미래 카르타고 왕국의 기초를 마련했습니다.

Clever and proud Dido, the storm is coming and your people look for a shelter under your wise and powerful protection.
영리하고 자랑스러운 디도, 폭풍이 다가오고 당신의 백성들은 당신의 현명하고 강력한 보호 아래 피난처를 찾고 있습니다.

Can you create a new and radiant Carthage able to cleave the darkness?
어둠을 뚫고 새롭고 빛나는 카르타고를 만들 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 비잔틴

Magnificent Empress Theodora, beloved of Byzantium and of Rome, your people salute you!
비잔티움과 로마의 사랑을 받은 위대한 황후 테오도라, 당신의 백성들은 당신에게 경의를 표합니다!

With your beauty and intelligence, you rose up from actress and courtesan to the rank of the most powerful woman in the Roman Empire, as wife of Justinian I.
당신은 아름다움과 지성을 바탕으로 배우와 창녀에서 유스티니아누스 1세의 아내로서 로마 제국에서 가장 강력한 여성의 지위에 올랐습니다.

In the late 520's AD, you helped your husband engage in spiritual and legal reforms, promugalting numerous laws to improve women's status and treatment in the empire.
서기 520년대 후반, 당신은 남편을 도와 제국에서 여성의 지위와 처우를 개선하기 위해 수많은 법률을 제정하며 정신적, 법적 개혁을 추진했습니다.

You also made of Constantinople the jewel of the Eastern Roman Empire with the restoration and construction of many aqueducts, bridges, and churches, its beauty culminating with the creation of the Hagia Sophia, one of the most splendid pieces of architecture in the world.
또한 수많은 수로, 다리, 교회를 복원하고 건설하여 콘스탄티노플을 동로마 제국의 보석으로 만들었으며, 세계에서 가장 화려한 건축물 중 하나인 아야 소피아를 건설하여 그 아름다움이 절정에 달했습니다.

Beautiful Empress,the Byzantine Empire's magnificence is intact in all memories, and ready to reborn as the new jewel of humankind.
아름다운 황후, 비잔틴 제국의 웅장함은 모든 기억 속에 고스란히 남아 있으며 인류의 새로운 보석으로 다시 태어날 준비가 되어 있습니다.

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 켈트

May glory and honor always be upon you, Warrior Queen!
워리어 퀸, 영광과 명예가 항상 함께하길!

In a time dominated by men, you successfully claimed the throne and the power, but also valiantly defied the mighty Roman Empire.
남성이 지배하던 시대에 당신은 왕좌와 권력을 쟁취하는 데 성공했을 뿐만 아니라 강력한 로마 제국에 용감하게 맞섰습니다.

Punished and humiliated by the hand of the Roman bloody invaders, you united your people and led a terrible revolt, to seek revenge.
로마의 피비린내 나는 침략자들의 손에 의해 처벌과 굴욕을 당한 당신은 복수를 위해 백성들을 단결시키고 끔찍한 반란을 이끌었습니다.

Many legions fell under your fierce attacks and you burned the city of London with your anger.
많은 군단이 당신의 맹렬한 공격으로 쓰러졌고 당신은 분노로 런던을 불태웠습니다.

While the Romans still kept ownership of your land after your final defeat, your actions nonetheless showed Rome that this land could never be fully conquered, making Nero himself consider to withdraw all troops and leaving Britain forever.
마지막 패배 후에도 로마는 여전히 당신들의 땅을 소유했지만, 그럼에도 불구하고 당신의 행동은 로마에게 이 땅을 완전히 정복할 수 없다는 것을 보여 주었고, 네로 자신도 모든 군대를 철수하고 영국을 영원히 떠날 것을 고려하게 만들었습니다.

O raging lioness, will you lead the Celts again under the glory of your name, to spread the fires of liberty, and achieve a final victory?
성난 암사자여, 당신의 이름을 걸고 켈트족을 다시 이끌고 자유의 불길을 퍼뜨리고 최후의 승리를 거두시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 에티오피아

May God bless you, wise and righteous Emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie.
현명하고 의로운 에티오피아의 황제, 하일레 셀라시에에게 신의 축복이 있기를 기원합니다.

As one of Ethiopia's greatest rulers and a spiritual leader of the Rastafarian movement, your good influence on diplomacy and political cooperation are praised throughout the world.
에티오피아의 위대한 통치자이자 라스타파 운동의 정신적 지도자인 당신의 외교와 정치 협력에 대한 선한 영향력은 전 세계적으로 찬사를 받고 있습니다.

You created Ethiopia's first written constitution, and favorized democracy for years to come, your great wisdom making Ethiopia enter as a charter member in the United Nations.
에티오피아 최초의 헌법을 제정하고 민주주의를 지지하셨으며, 에티오피아가 유엔의 헌장 회원국으로 가입할 수 있도록 큰 지혜를 발휘하셨습니다.

Always aiming to reform and modernize your nation, you changed Ethiopian destiny for the best.
항상 국가의 개혁과 현대화를 목표로 에티오피아의 운명을 최상으로 바꾸어 놓으셨습니다.

Revered King, your knowledge and intelligence are required once again to protect your people from many threats in the world.
존경하는 국왕님, 세계의 많은 위협으로부터 국민을 보호하기 위해 다시 한 번 당신의 지식과 지성이 필요합니다.

Will you secure peace and stability, with benevolence and authority, in the radiance of the Kebra Nagast?
케브라 나가스트의 광채 속에서 자비와 권위로 평화와 안정을 지켜주시겠습니까?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?




 # 마야

Kneel before King Pacal the Great, son of the gods and protector of the Palenque domain!
신들의 아들이자 팔렌케 왕국의 수호자인 파칼 대왕 앞에 무릎을 꿇으세요!

After your kingdom has been harassed for years by neighboring rivals, you struck back at the enemies of your people, defeating each of them and sacrificing their leaders as a retribution to the insults made to your ancestors.
당신의 왕국은 이웃 라이벌들에게 수년간 괴롭힘을 당한 후, 당신은 조상들에게 모욕을 준 것에 대한 보복으로 적들을 물리치고 그들의 지도자들을 희생시켰습니다.

Your wisdom and hard will not only restored the glory of Palenque, but turned it into a magnificient city, as your people built the greatest monuments and architecture the world has ever known.
당신의 지혜와 강인한 의지는 팔렝케의 영광을 되찾았을 뿐만 아니라, 당신의 백성들이 세계 최고의 기념물과 건축물을 건설하면서 웅장한 도시로 변모시켰습니다.

Absolute King, your people need you to save the great Mayan culture and knowledge.
절대 왕, 당신의 백성들은 위대한 마야 문화와 지식을 구하기 위해 당신이 필요합니다.

Will you be able to read the movement of the stars, and find in the heavens the power to repel any foes?
별의 움직임을 읽고 하늘에서 적을 격퇴할 힘을 찾을 수 있을까요?

Will your new empire shine through the ages of history?
그대의 제국이 세월 속에서 빛나게 하시겠습니까?