 # 바빌론

May the blessings of heaven be upon you, O great Nebuchadnezzar, father of mighty and ancient Babylon!
오, 강대한 고대 바빌론의 아버지, 위대한 네부카드네자르여, 하늘의 축복이 그대와 함께하기를!

Young was the world when Sargon built Babylon some five thousand years ago, long did it grow and prosper,
사르곤이 약 5천년 전 바빌론을 건설했을 때만 해도 세상은 창조된 지 오래되지 않았습니다.

gaining its first empire the eighteenth century BC, under godlike Hammurabi, the giver of law.
바빌로니아는 법전을 만드신 신성한 함무라비 왕 치하 기원전 18세기에 처음으로 제국을 이루었습니다.

Although conquered by the Kassites and then by the Assyrians, Babylon endured, emerging phoenix-like from its ashes of destruction and regaining its independence despite its many enemies.
비록 카시트인과 아시리아인에게 정복당했으나, 시련을 이겨낸 바빌로니아는 불사조와도 같이 파괴의 잿더미에서 솟아올라 수많은 적의 틈바구니에서 독립을 되찾았습니다.

Truly was Babylon the center of arts and learning in the ancient world.
바빌론은 고대 세계에서 진정한 예술과 학문의 중심지였습니다!

O Nebuchadnezzar, your empire endured but a short time after your death, falling to the mighty Persians, and then to the Greeks, until the great city was destroyed by 141 BC.
네부카드네자르여, 그대가 세상을 떠난 후 얼마 지나지 않아 바빌로니아 제국은 강대한 페르시아와 그리스에 정복당해, 기원전 141년에는 바빌론 시마저 파괴되었습니다.

But is Babylon indeed gone forever, great Nebuchadnezzar?
위대한 네부카드네자르여, 바빌론이 정말 영원히 사라진 것입니까?

Your people look to you to bring the empire back to life once more.
백성은 그대가 다시금 제국을 부활시키리라 기대하고 있습니다!

Will you accept the challenge? Will you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
이 도전을 받아들여 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 그리스

May the blessings of the gods be upon you, oh great King Alexander!
위대한 알렉산더 대왕이여, 신의 축복이 그대와 함께하기를!

You are the ruler of the mighty Greek nation.
그대는 위대한 그리스의 통치자입니다.

Your people lived for so many years in isolated city-states - legendary cities such as Athens, Sparta, Thebes - 
그리스 백성은 오랫동안 아테네, 스파르타, 테베와 같은 전설적인 도시 국가를 이루어 살며,

where they gave the world many great things, such as democracy, philosophy, tragedy, art and architecture, the very foundation of Western Civilization.
서양 문명의 근간을 이룬 민주주의, 철학, 비극, 예술과 건축술 등 많은 업적을 세상에 남겼습니다.

Although few in number and often hostile to each other, in the 5th century BC they were able to defeat their much larger neighbor, Persia, on land and sea.
그리스인은 비록 수적으로 열세이고 서로 적대할 때도 많았으나, 기원전 5세기에는 육상, 해상에서 강대국 페르시아를 물리치는 데 성공했습니다.

Alexander, your people stand ready to march to war, to spread the great Greek culture to millions and to bring you everlasting glory.
알렉산더여, 그리스 민족은 언제라도 세상과 맞설 준비가 되어 있습니다. 그들은 위대한 그리스 문화를 넓은 세상에 전파하고 그대에게 영원한 영광을 안길 것입니다.

Are you ready to accept your destiny, King Alexander? Will you lead your people to triumph and greatness? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
알렉산더 왕이여, 이 운명을 받아들이고 그리스인을 위대한 승리로 이끌어 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?



 # 중국

The Blessings of Heaven be upon you. Empress Wu Zetian, most beautiful and haughty ruler of China! Oh great Empress, whose shadow causes the flowers to blossom and the rivers to flow!
가장 아름답고 도도한 중국의 통치자인 측천무후여, 그대의 그림자에 꽃이 피어나고 강이 흐릅니다. 하늘의 축복이 그대와 함께하기를!

You are the leader of the Chinese, the oldest and the greatest civilization that humanity has ever produced.
그대는 인류 역사상 가장 유구하고 위대한 문명인 중국의 지도자입니다.

China's history stretches back into the mists of time, its people achieving many great things long before the other upstart civilizations were even conceived.
중국의 역사는 까마득한 옛날로 거슬러 올라갑니다. 다른 문명이 미처 생겨나기도 전에 중국인은 이미 많은 업적을 이루었고, 

China's contributions to the arts and sciences are too many and too wondrous to do justice to - the printing press, gunpowder, the works of Confucius - these are but a few of the gifts China has given to an undeserving world!
예술적, 과학적 위업은 그 수가 너무 많아 이루 말할 수가 없습니다. 인쇄기, 화약, 유교 사상은 중국이 미개한 세상에 선사한 선물 중 극히 일부일 뿐입니다!

You, great Queen, who, with cunning and beauty, rose from the position of lowly concubine to that of Divine Empress - your people call out to you to lead them!
그 지략과 아름다움으로 미천한 첩의 지위를 벗어던지고 신성한 통치자로 등극한 위대한 여제여, 중국을 이끌어주기를 바라는 백성의 목소리가 들리십니까?

Great China is once again beset on all sides by barbarians.
위대한 중국은 또 다시 야만인에 포위당했습니다.

Can you defeat all your many foes and return your country to greatness?
적들을 꺾고 중국의 영광을 되찾으며,

Can you build a civilization to stand the test of time?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 이집트

We greet thee, oh great Ramesses, Pharaoh of Egypt, who causes the sun to rise and the Nile to flow, and who blesses his fortunate people with all the good things of life!
해를 띄우고 나일강을 흐르게 하며, 삶의 모든 기쁨으로 백성을 축복하는 위대한 이집트 파라오 람세스여!

Oh great lord, from time immemorial your people lived on the banks of the Nile river, where they brought writing to the world, and advanced mathematics, sculpture, and architecture.
까마득한 태고로부터 이집트 백성은 나일강 기슭에 살며 이 세상에 문자와 고등 수학, 조각 기술과 건축 기술을 탄생시켰습니다.

Thousands of years ago they created the great monuments which still stand tall and proud.
이집트인은 수천년 전에 오늘날까지 위풍당당하게 서 있을 장엄한 기념물을 건설했습니다.

Oh, Ramesses, for uncounted years your people endured, as other petty nations around them have risen and then fallen into dust.
람세스여, 주변의 약소한 나라들이 흥망을 거듭하는 오랜 세월 동안 이집트 백성은 묵묵히 견뎠습니다.

They look to you to lead them once more into greatness.
그들은 다시금 옛 영광을 되찾아줄 지도자를 기다리고 있습니다.

Can you honor the gods and bring Egypt back to her rightful place at the very center of the world? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
신들의 뜻을 받들어 이집트를 세계의 중심으로 되돌리고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 영국

Praises upon her serene highness, Queen Elizabeth Gloriana.
고귀하신 엘리자베스 여왕 폐하.

You lead and protect the celebrated maritime nation of England.
그대는 축복받은 해양 국가인 잉글랜드의 수호자이며 지도자이십니다.

England is an ancient land, settled as early as 35,000 years ago.
잉글랜드는 태고의 섬입니다. 3만 5천 년 전에 인류가 이 땅에 정착하였고, 

The island has seen countless waves of invaders, each in turn becoming a part of the fabric of the people.
셀 수 없는 외침을 겪으면서 백성들은 힘을 합쳐왔습니다.

Although England is a small island, for many years your people dominated the world stage.
비록 작은 섬이지만 그대의 백성은 여러 해 동안 세계 무대를 장악하였고, 

Their matchless navy, brilliant artists and shrewd merchants, giving them power and influence far in excess of their mere numbers.
비할 데 없이 강한 해군과 뛰어난 예술가들, 그리고 기민한 상인들은 단순히 숫자로 판단할 수는 없을 만큼 큰 영향력을 행사했습니다.

Queen Elizabeth, will you bring about a new golden age for the English people?
엘리자베스 여왕 폐하, 잉글랜드의 백성들에게 새로운 황금시대를 열어주시겠습니까?

They look to you once more to return peace and prosperity to the nation.
백성들은 다시 한 번 그대가 국가에 평화와 번영을 가져오시길 바라고 있습니다.

Will you take up the mantle of greatness? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
과거의 위대한 업적을 잇고 시대의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 프랑스

Long life and triumph to you, First Consul and Emperor of France, Napoleon I, ruler of the French people.
최고의 집정관이자 프랑스의 황제, 프랑스 국민의 통치자이신 나폴레옹 1세 폐하, 오래도록 승리를 누리십시오.

France lies at the heart of Europe.
프랑스는 유럽의 심장입니다.

Long has Paris been the world center of culture, arts and letters.
오랫동안 파리는 세계의 문화와 예술 그리고 문학의 중심이었습니다.

Although surrounded by competitors - and often enemies - France has endured as a great nation.
비록 경쟁자들과 적들에게 둘러싸여 있으나 프랑스는 위대한 나라로서 그것을 견뎌왔습니다.

Its armies have marched triumphantly into battle from one end of the world to the other, its soldiers and generals among the best in history.
프랑스의 군대는 전 세계의 전장을 당당하게 누볐으며 역사적으로 최고라 할 수 있는 병사와 장군을 보유하였습니다.

Napoleon Bonaparte, France yearns for you to rebuild your empire, to lead her once more to glory and greatness, to make France once more the epicenter of culture and refinement.
나폴레옹 보나파르트여, 프랑스는 그대가 제국을 재건하여 다시 한번 영광과 위대함, 그리고 세련된 문화와 품위가 가득한 국가로 만들어 주기를 갈망합니다.

Emperor, will you ride once more against your foes? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
적들에 맞서 시대의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 러시아

Greetings upon thee, Your Imperial Majesty Catherine, wondrous Empress of all the Russias.
러시아 제국의 위대한 여제 예카테리나시여, 안녕하십니까.

At your command lies the largest country in the world.
그대는 세계에서 가장 큰 나라를 움직이십니다.

Mighty Russia stretches from the Pacific Ocean in the east to the Baltic Sea in the west.
강대한 러시아는 동쪽으로는 태평양으로부터 서쪽으로는 발트해까지 펼쳐져 있습니다.

Despite wars, droughts, and every manner of disaster the heroic Russian people survive and prosper, their artists and scientists among the best in the world.
전쟁과 가뭄, 모든 종류의 재앙에도 불구하고, 용감한 러시아인들은 살아남아 번영하였으며 세계 최고의 예술가와 과학자들을 배출했습니다.

The Empire today remains one of the strongest ever seen in human history - a true superpower, with the greatest destructive force ever devised at her command.
오늘날까지 제국은 파괴적인 힘을 가진 엄청난 군사력으로 인류 역사상 가장 강대한 제국 중 하나로 남아있습니다.

Catherine, your people look to you to bring forth glorious days for Russia and her people, to revitalize the land and recapture the wonder of the Enlightenment.
예카테리나시여, 백성들은 그대가 다시 한 번 러시아와 러시아 백성들에게 영광스러운 시대를 가져다주고, 계몽사상을 널리 퍼트려 이 땅에 활력을 불어넣어 주시길 바랍니다.

Will you lead your people once more into greatness? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
그대의 백성들을 또다시 위대한 시대로 이끄시고 시간의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 로마
The blessings of the gods be upon you, Caesar Augustus, emperor of Rome and all her holdings.
로마의 모든 속주의 황제이신 카이사르 아우구스투스여, 황제 폐하께 신의 축복이 내리시길 빌겠습니다.

Your empire was the greatest and longest lived of all in Western civilization.
그대의 제국은 서양 문명 중에서 가장 위대하고 가장 길었으며, 

And your people single-handedly shaped its culture, law, art, and warfare like none other, before or since.
그대의 백성들은 스스로의 힘으로 전무후무할 문화와 법, 예술과 전쟁을 이룩했습니다.

Through years of glorious conquest, Rome came to dominate all the lands of the Mediterranean from Spain in the west to Syria in the east.
영광스러운 정복의 시대 이후 로마는 서쪽으로는 스페인 그리고 동쪽으로는 시리아에 이르는 지중해의 모든 대지를 지배하게 되었고, 

And her dominion would eventually expand to cover much of England and northern Germany.
로마의 지배력은 마침내 영국과 북부 독일까지 미치게 되었습니다.

Roman art and architecture still awe and inspire the world. And she remains the envy of all lesser civilizations who have followed.
또한, 로마의 예술과 건축술은 뒤따르는 모든 미진한 문명의 선망의 대상이 되었습니다.

O mighty emperor, your people turn to you to once more reclaim the glory of Rome!
위대한 황제여, 그대의 백성은 다시 한 번 로마의 영광을 되찾고 싶어합니다.

Will you see to it that your empire rises again, bringing peace and order to all?
제국을 다시 일으켜 세상에 안녕과 질서를 가져오시지 않겠습니까?

Will you make Rome once again center of the world? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
로마를 다시 한 번 세상의 중심으로 만들고 시간의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 아라비아
Blessings of God be upon you oh great caliph Harun al-Rashid, leader of the pious Arabian people!
오, 신실한 아라비아의 지도자, 위대한 칼리프 하룬 알 라시드여. 그대에게 하늘의 축복이 있기를!

The Muslim empire, the Caliphate was born in the turbulent years after the death of the prophet Muhammad in 632 AD, as his followers sought to extend the rule of God to all of the people of the earth.
예언자 무함마드 사후 환란의 시기에 무함마드의 추종자들이 하늘의 말씀을 전 세계에 전하기 위해 기원후 632년에 아랍 제국을 건설했습니다.

The caliphate grew mighty indeed at the height of its power, ruling Spain, North Africa, the Middle East, Anatolia, the Balkans and Persia.
아랍 제국은 그 전성기에 스페인과 북아프리카, 중동, 아나톨리아, 발칸 제국, 페르시아를 아우르는 대제국이었습니다.

An empire as great as or even greater than that of Rome.
로마 제국만큼이나 강대한… 아니, 어쩌면 더 강대한 제국이었을 것입니다.

The arts and sciences flourished in Arabia during the Middle Ages, even as the countries of Europe descended into ignorance and chaos.
유럽 국가들이 무지와 혼란에 빠져 있던 중세에도 아라비아에서는 예술과 과학이 꽃을 피웠습니다.

The Caliphate survived for six hundred years, until finally succumbing to attack from the Mongols, those destroyers of Empires.
600년간 유지한 아랍 제국은 이미 여러 제국을 정복한 몽골의 공격에 무릎을 꿇고 말았습니다.

Great Caliph Harun al Rashid, your people look to you to return them to greatness!
위대한 칼리프 하룬 알 라시드여, 백성은 그대가 과거의 영광을 되찾아주리라 기대하고 있습니다.

To make Arabia once again an enlightened land of arts and knowledge, a powerful nation who needs fear no enemy!
아라비아를 다시금 예술과 지식이 꽃 피는 문명의 땅으로, 어떤 적도 두려워하지 않아도 되는 강대국으로 변모시켜주리라 기대하고 있습니다.

Oh Caliph, will you take up the challenge? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
칼리프여, 이 도전을 받아들이고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 미국

Welcome President Washington!
반갑습니다, 워싱턴 대통령이여!

You lead the industrious American civilization!
그대는 근면한 미국 문명의 지도자입니다.

Formed in the conflagration of revolution in the 18th century, within a hundred years, the young nation became embroiled in a terrible civil war that nearly tore the country apart, 
18세기 혁명을 통해 수립된 신생 국가 미국은, 100년도 되기 전에 끔찍한 남북전쟁에 휘말려 거의 와해될 뻔했습니다.

but it was just a few short years later in the 20th century that the United States reached the height of its power, emerging triumphant and mighty from the two terrible wars that destroyed so many other great nations.
그러나 바로 그 몇 년 후 20세기에 미국의 위력은 정점에 달해, 수많은 강국을 파멸시킨 두 차례의 전쟁에서 위풍당당하게 승리합니다.

The United States is a nation of immigrants, filled with optimism and determination.
미국은 낙관주의와 결의로 가득한 이민자의 나라입니다.

They lack only a leader to help them fulfill their promise.
그들에게는 그 꿈을 실현해 줄 지도자가 필요합니다.

President Washington, can you lead the American people to greatness? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
워싱턴 대통령이여, 미국인이 위업을 이루도록 이끌고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 일본

Blessings upon you, noble Oda Nobunaga, ruler of Japan, the land of the Rising Sun! May you long walk among its flowering blossoms.
태양이 떠오르는 나라를 다스리는 고귀한 오다 노부나가여, 그대가 축복 속에서 피어나는 꽃잎 사이를 오래오래 걷기를 기원합니다.

The Japanese are an island people, proud and pious with a rich culture of arts and letters.
일본인은 풍부한 예술과 학문, 문화를 자랑하는 섬 국민입니다.

Your civilization stretches back thousands of years, years of bloody warfare, expansion and isolation, great wealth and great poverty.
일본 문명의 역사는 수천 년을 거슬러 올라가는 피 튀기는 전쟁의 역사, 확장과 고립의 역사, 엄청난 부와 엄청난 빈곤의 역사입니다.

In addition to their prowess on the field of battle, your people are also immensely industrious, and their technological innovation and mighty factories are the envy of lesser people everywhere.
일본인은 전투에 두각을 드러내는 한편으로 매우 성실하기도 하며, 그 기술 혁명과 엄청난 공장은 전 세계 약소국의 부러움을 삽니다.

Legendary daimyo, will you grab the reins of destiny?
전설적인 다이묘여, 운명의 고삐를 쥐고 

Will you bring your family and people the honor and glory they deserve?
그대의 가문과 국민에게 영광을 안겨주시지 않겠습니까?

Will you once again pick up the sword and march to triumph? Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
다시 한번 검과 방패를 들고 승리를 향해 진군하여, 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 인도

Greetings, President Mahatma Gandhi, great souled leader of India!
반갑습니다, 위대한 영혼을 지닌 인도의 지도자, 간디 대통령이여!

You are the ruler of one of the oldest countries in the world with history stretching back almost 10,000 years.
그대는 역사가 만 년이나 되는 가장 오래된 나라 중 하나인 인도의 지도자입니다.

A spiritual country, India is the birthplace of three of the world's great religions - Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism.
영적인 나라 인도는 위대한 종교인 힌두교, 불교, 자이나교의 발상지입니다.

This is a passionate land of music and color, a land of great wealth and grinding poverty.
인도는 열정이 넘치는 음악과 색채의 땅이며, 엄청난 부와 뼈아픈 빈곤의 땅입니다.

For centuries, India was divided into kingdoms who fought constantly with each other and against outside invaders. That was, however, after empires such as Maratha, Maurya and Gupta.
인도는 몇백 년 동안, 끊임없이 서로 적대하고 외세와 싸웠던 여러 왕국으로 나뉘어 있었습니다.

In the 12th century AD, India was conquered by Muslim Turks who fled from the Mongols.
12세기에 인도는 이슬람 튀르크에 정복당했습니다.

In the early 17th century, the English arrived, and through a combination of shrewd diplomacy and technological superiority, they conquered your fragmented nation.
17세기 초에는 영국인이 건너와 약삭빠른 외교와 기술적 우월성을 무기로 산산이 조각난 인도를 정복했습니다.

England remained in power for some two centuries until driven out by a rising wave of Indian nationalism, a peaceful rebellion unlike any before seen in history, one led by you!
영국은 약 200년간 정권을 유지했으나, 쇄도하는 인도 민족주의의 물결로 말미암아 인도에서 쫓겨났습니다. 이는 역사상 유래가 없는 평화적 혁명이었습니다.

Gandhi, your people look to you to lead them to even greater heights of glory!
간디여, 백성은 그대가 인도를 보다 큰 영광으로 이끌어주기를 기대하고 있습니다!

Can you help your people realize their great potential, to once again become the world's center of arts, culture and religion? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
인도인의 잠재력을 실현하여 다시금 인도가 세계의 예술, 문화, 종교 중심지가 되도록 하여 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?



 # 독일
Hail mighty Bismarck, first chancellor of Germany and her empire!
Germany is an upstart nation, fashioned from the ruins of the Holy Roman Empire and finally unified in 1871, a little more than a century ago.
The German people have proven themselves to be creative, industrious and ferocious warriors.
Despite enduring great catastrophes in the first half of the 20th century, Germany remains a worldwide economic, artistic and technological leader.
= 독일 제국의 초대 수상, 위대한 비스마르크에 경의를!
독일은 신성 로마 제국의 폐허에서 탄생한 신생 국가로 한 세기 조금 더 전인 1871년에 마침내 통일됐습니다.
독일인은 그들이 창의적이고 성실하면서도 잔인한 전사임을 입증했습니다.
20세기 전반 큰 위기를 겪었음에도, 독일은 여전히 세계의 경제와 예술, 기술을 선도하고 있습니다.
Great Prince Bismarck, the German people look up to you to lead them to greater days of glory.
Their determination is strong, and now they turn to you, their beloved iron chancellor, to guide them once more.
Will you rule and conquer through blood and iron, or foster the Germanic arts and industry?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 위대한 비스마르크여, 독일인은 그대의 지도 하에 다시금 영광을 되찾고 싶어합니다.
독일인은 결의를 굳게 다지며, 존경해 마지않는 철혈 재상이 다시금 독일을 이끌어주리라 기대하고 있습니다.
철과 피로써 지배하고 정복하겠습니까, 아니면 게르만의 예술과 산업을 장려하고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 오스만
Blessings of God be upon you, oh Great Emperor Suleiman!
Your power, wealth and generosity awe the world!
Truly, are you called 'Magnificent!' Your empire began in Bithynia, a small country in Eastern Anatolia in 12th century.
Taking advantage in the decline of the great Seljuk Sultanate of Rum, King Osman I of Bithynia expanded west into Anatolia.
Over the next century, your subjects brought down the empire of Byzantium, taking its holdings in Turkey and then the Balkans.
In the mid 15th century, the Ottomans captured ancient Constantinople, gaining control of the strategic link between Europe and the Middle East.
Your people's empire would continue to expand for centuries governing much of North Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe at its height.
= 오, 위대한 황제 술레이만이여, 신의 축복이 함께하기를!
그대의 권세와 부강함, 그리고 자비로움에 세상이 경배할 것입니다!
그대야말로 '대제'라는 이름에 적합한 왕입니다!
그대의 제국은 12세기에 아나톨리아 동부의 소국 비티니아에서 시작되었습니다.
비티니아의 오스만 1세 왕은 셀주크 술탄국 등의 쇠퇴를 틈타 서쪽으로 아나톨리아까지 영토를 확장했습니다.
그 후 100년 동안 그대의 신민은 비잔티움 제국을 정복하여, 그 지배 하에 있던 터키와 발칸 제국을 합병했습니다.
15세기 중반 오스만 제국은 고대 콘스탄티노플을 정복하여, 유럽과 중동을 잇는 전략적 요지를 손에 넣었습니다.
오스만 제국은 몇 세기 동안 확장을 거듭하여, 그 전성기에는 북아프리카, 중동, 동유럽의 대부분을 아울렀습니다.
Mighty Sultan, heed the call of your people!
Bring your empire back to the height of its power and glory and once again the world will look upon your greatness with awe and admiration!
Will you accept the challenge, great emperor?
Will you build an empire that will stand the test of time?
= 위대한 술레이만이여, 백성의 부름을 들으십시오!
오스만 제국을 다시금 그 권세와 영광의 정점에 올려놓아, 세상이 그대의 위대함을 칭송하도록 하십시오.
위대한 황제여, 도전을 받아들여 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 한국
Greetings to you, exalted King Sejong the Great, servant to the people and protector of the Choson Dynasty!
Your glorious vision of prosperity and overwhelming benevolence towards the common man made you the most beloved of all Korean kings.
From the earliest days of your reign, the effort you took to provide a fair and just society for all was surpassed only by the technological advances spurred onwards by your unquenched thirst for knowledge.
Guided by your wisdom, the scholars of the Jade Hall developed Korea's first written language, Hangul, bringing the light of literature and science to the masses after centuries of literary darkness.
= 백성들의 종복이자 조선 왕조의 수호자이신 위대한 세종대왕이시여, 대왕님께 문안드리옵나이다.
조선의 번영을 내다보는 안목과 지극히 자비로우신 대왕은 한국에서 가장 사랑받는 왕으로 만들었습니다.
대왕님은 공정하고 정의로운 사회를 만들기 위해서 집권 초부터 많은 노력을 기울였고 지식을 중시해 기술을 크게 발전시키셨습니다.
대왕님의 현명함으로 인도받은 집현전의 학자들이 한국 최초의 문자인 한글을 개발하여 수 세기를 지속한 문학의 암흑기에 한 줄기 빛을 선사한 것으로 대중에게 문학과 과학을 접할 기회를 열어준 것이었습니다.
Honorable Sejong, once more the people look to your for guidance.
Will you rise to the occasion, bringing harmony and understanding to the people?
Can you once again advance your kingdom's standing to such wondrous heights?
Can you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 영예로운 세종대왕이시여, 대왕님의 현명함으로 조선 백성을 다시 한 번 이끌어 주십시오!
조선 백성에게 조화와 지식을 선사하십시오.
조선을 빛낼 위대한 업적을 다시 이룰 수 있겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하실 수 있겠습니까?

 # 이로쿼이
Greetings, noble Hiawatha, leader of the mighty Iroquois nations!
Long have your people lived near the great and holy lake Ontario in the land that has come to be known as the New York state in North America.
In the mists of antiquity, the five peoples of Seneca, Onondaga, Mohawks, Cayugas and Oneida united into one nation, the Haudenosaunee, the Iroquois.
With no written language, the wise men of your nation created the great law of peace, the model for many constitutions including that of the United States.
For many years, your people battled great enemies, such as the Huron, and the French and English invaders.
Tough outnumbered and facing weapons far more advanced than the ones your warriors wielded, the Iroquois survived and prospered, until they were finally overwhelmed by the mighty armies of the new United States.
= 반갑습니다, 고귀한 하이어워사여, 막강한 이로쿼이 연맹의 수장이여!
그대의 백성은 '북아메리카의 뉴욕 주'라고 알려지게 된 위대하고 신성한 온타리오 호수 기슭에 오랫동안 살아왔습니다.
까마득한 옛날에 세네카족, 오논다가족, 모호크족, 카유가족, 오네이다족의 다섯 부족이 하나의 나라 '하우데노사우니'를 이루었으니, 이들을 이로쿼이족이라고 합니다.
그대 나라의 현인들은 문자도 존재하지 않는 상황에서, 미국 헌법을 비롯한 여러 헌법의 모범이 된 '위대한 평화의 법'을 제정했습니다.
이로쿼이족은 오랫동안 휴런족, 프랑스와 영국 침략자 등 강대한 적에 맞서 싸웠습니다.
비록 수적으로 열세였고 부족의 전사들이 사용하던 것보다 훨씬 진보한 무기를 상대해야 했음에도 이로쿼이족은 살아남아 번영하다가, 끝내는 신생 미국의 막강한 군대에 제압당하고 말았습니다.
Oh noble Hiawatha, listen to the cries of your people!
They call out to you to lead them in peace and war, to rebuild the great longhouse and unite the tribes once again.
Will you accept this challenge, great leader?
Will you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 오 고귀한 하이어워사여!
백성의 부름에 귀를 기울이십시오!
그들은 평화와 전쟁의 시대로 이로쿼이를 이끌어줄 지도자를 갈구하고 있습니다!
도시를 재건하고 다섯 부족을 다시 규합하십시오.
이 시련을 받아들여 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 페르시아
The blessings of heaven be upon you, beloved king Darius of Persia!
You lead a strong and wise people.
In the morning of the world, the great Persian leader Cyrus revolted against the mighty Median empire and by 550 BC, the Medes were no more.
Through cunning diplomacy and military prowess, great Cyrus conquered wealthy Lydia and powerful Babylon, his son conquering proud Egypt some years later.
Over time, Persian might expanded into far away Macedonia, at the very door of the upstart Greek city-states.
Long would Persia prosper until the upstart villain Alexander of Macedon, destroyed the great empire in one shocking campaign.
= 경애하는 페르시아의 다리우스 왕이시여, 천상의 축복이 함께하시기를 빕니다!
왕께서는 강하고 현명한 백성을 이끄십니다.
기원전 550년, 페르시아의 위대한 지도자이신 키루스는 강대하던 메데스 제국을 무너뜨렸습니다.
키루스 대왕은 외교 책략과 군사력을 바탕으로 부유한 리디아와 강력한 바빌론을 정복하였고, 그로부터 수년 후 그의 아들은 오만한 이집트를 정복하였습니다.
마케도니아의 알렉산더가 단 한 번의 전쟁으로 페르시아 제국을 파멸시키지만 않았어도 페르시아는 건방진 그리스 도시 국가들의 문전에 있는 머나먼 마케도니아까지 진출할 수도 있었을 것입니다.
Darius, your people look to you to once again bring back the days of power and glory for Persia!
The empire of your ancestors must emerge again, to triumph over its foes and to bring peace and order to the world!
O king, will you answer the call?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 다리우스시여, 페르시아의 백성은 그대가 다시 한 번 페르시아의 영광과 권위를 되찾으시길 원합니다!
선조의 제국을 다시 일으켜 적에게서 승리를 거두고 세계에 평화와 질서를 가져와야 합니다.
왕이시여, 부름에 응하고 시대의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 폴리네시아
Greetings and blessings be upon you, Kamehameha the Great, chosen by the heavens to unite your scattered peoples.
Oh mighty King, you were the first to bring the Big Island of Hawai'i under one solitary rule in 1791 AD.
This was followed by the merging of all the remaining islands under your standard in 1810.
As the first King of Hawai'i, you standardized the legal and taxation systems and instituted the Mamalahoe Kawanai, an edict protecting civilians in times of war.
You ensured the continued unification and sovereignty of the islands by your strong laws and deeds, even after your death in 1819.
= 흩어진 민족을 통일하도록 하늘의 선택을 받은 카메하메하 대왕이여, 축복이 함께 하기를.
오 위대한 왕이여, 그대는 기원후 1791년에 하와이 섬을 하나로 통일한 최초의 군주였습니다.
그후로 1810년에는 나머지 섬도 모두 그대의 지배 하에 통합되었습니다.
하와이의 초대 왕으로서, 그대는 법과 조세 체제를 표준화하고 전시에 민간인을 보호하는 칙명인 '부서진 노의 율법'을 제정했습니다.
그대는 강력한 법률를 제정하고 이를 실행함으로써, 1819년 그대가 죽은 후에도 하와이 제도의 통일과 주권이 유지되도록 하였습니다.
Oh wise and exalted King, your people wish for a kingdom of their own once more and require a leader of unparalleled greatness!
Will you answer their call and don the mantle of the Lion of the Pacific?
Will you build a kingdom that stands the test of time?
= 오 현명하고 고귀한 왕이여, 하와이 민족은 다시금 왕국을 건설하고 싶어하며 위대한 지도자를 필요로 합니다!
그들의 부름에 응답해 '태평양의 사자'의 갈기를 쓰고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 왕국을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 시암
Greetings to you, Great King Ramkhamhaeng, leader of the glorious Siamese people!
O mighty King, your people bow down before you in awe and fear!
You are the ruler of Siam, an ancient country in the heart of Southeast Asia, a beautiful and mysterious land.
Surrounded by foes, beset by bloody war and grinding poverty, the clever and loyal Siamese people have endured and triumphed.
King Ramkhamhaeng, your empire was once part of the Khmer Empire, until the 13th century AD, when your ancestors revolted, forming the small Sukhothai kingdom.
Through successful battle and cunning diplomacy, the tiny kingdom grew into a mighty empire, an empire which would dominate South East Asia for more than a century!
= 시암족의 지도자 위대한 람캄행 왕이여, 반갑습니다!
오 위대한 왕이여, 그대의 백성이 경외로 그대 앞에 절합니다.
그대는 동남아시아 중심에 자리했던 고대 국가 시암의 군주입니다.
총명하고 성실한 시암족은, 적에게 둘러싸이고 끔찍한 전쟁과 뼈아픈 빈곤에 처해서도 살아남았습니다.
람캄행 왕이여, 그대의 제국은 크메르 제국의 일부였으나, 13세기 그대의 조상이 반란을 일으켜 수코타이라는 소왕국을 세웠습니다.
이 작은 왕국은 성공적인 전투와 교묘한 외교를 통해 동남아시아를 백 년이 넘게 호령한 막강한 제국으로 성장하였습니다!
Oh, wise and puissant King Ramkhamhaeng, your people need you to once again lead them to greatness!
Can you use your wits and strength of arms to protect your people and defeat your foes?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 오 현명하고 강대한 람캄행 왕이여, 다시 한번 그대의 백성을 영광으로 이끄십시오!
그대의 지혜와 힘으로 백성을 보호하고 적을 무찌르고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 스페인
Blessed Isabella, servant of God, holy queen of Castille and León!
Your people greet and welcome you.
You are the ruler of Spain, a beautiful and ancient country at the crossroads of the world between Europe and Africa, one shore on the Mediterranean and the other on the mighty Atlantic Ocean.
The Spanish are a multicultural people with roots in the Muslim and Christian worlds.
A seafaring race, Spanish explorers found and conquered much of the New World, and, for many centuries, its gold and silver brought Spain unrivalled wealth and power, making the Spanish court the envy of the world.
= 축복받은 신의 종이자 카스티야레온의 성스러운 여왕 이사벨라시여, 당신은 유럽과 아프리카, 지중해와 대서양이 만나는 아름답고 유서 깊은 땅 스페인의 지도자이십니다.
스페인은 가톨릭과 이슬람이 뒤섞인 다문화를 자랑합니다.
또한 스페인은 해양 강국으로, 신대륙을 발견하고 탐험하고 정복했으며 수 세기 동안 신대륙에서 흘러들어온 막대한 금과 은으로 유럽 열강의 위치를 누렸습니다.
O fair and virtuous Isabella!
Will you rebuild the Spanish empire and show the world again the greatness of your people?
Will you take up the mantle of the holy monarchy, and vanquish your foes under heaven's watchful eyes?
Your adoring subjects await your command!
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 아름답고 고결한 여왕이시여.
스페인 제국이 다시 세상에 이름을 떨치도록 과거의 영광을 되찾으시겠습니까?
기독교의 수호자가 되어 적에게 하늘의 심판을 내리시겠습니까?
스페인 백성이 당신을 기다립니다.
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설할 수 있겠습니까?

 # 송가이
May the blessings of God, who is greatest of all, be upon you Askia, leader of the Songhai people!
For many years your kingdom was a vassal of the mighty West African state of Mali, until the middle of the 14th century, when King Sunni Ali Ber wrested independence from the Mali, conquering much territory and fighting off numerous foes who sought to destroy him.
Ultimately, his conquest of the wealthy cities of Timbuktu and Jenne gave the growing Songhai empire the economic power to survive for some 100 years, until the empire was destroyed by foes with advanced technology - muskets against spearmen.
= 위대한 하느님의 축복이 송가이 민족의 지도자인 아스키아 그대와 함께하기를!
오랫동안 그대의 왕국은 서아프리카의 막강한 제국 말리의 속국이었으나, 14세기 중반 수니 알리 베르 왕이 말리로부터 독립을 쟁취하고 많은 적과 싸워 이기며 넓은 영토를 점령했습니다.
부유한 도시 팀북투와 젠네를 정복하면서 얻은 경제력으로, 송가이 제국은 100여 년을 지속하다가 발전된 기술력을 지닌 적의 손에 멸망했습니다.
머스킷을 든 병사를 창병이 상대해야 했으니까요.
King Askia, your people look to you to lead them to glory.
To make them powerful and wealthy, to keep them supplied with the weapons they need to defeat any foe.
Can you save them from destruction, oh King?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 아스키아 왕이여, 백성은 그대가 송가이를 영광으로 이끌어주리라 기대하고 있습니다.
그대가 송가이에 권세와 부를 안겨주고, 어떤 적이라도 무찌를 수 있는 무기를 주리라 기대하고 있습니다.
오 왕이여, 그들을 멸망으로부터 구하고 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 몽골
Greetings, o great Temuujin, immortal emperor of the mighty Mongol Empire!
Your fists shatter walls of cities and your voice brings despair to your enemies.
O Khan!
You united the warring tribes of Northern Asia into a mighty people, creating the greatest cavalry force the world has ever witnessed.
Your people's cunning diplomacy divided their enemies, making them weak and helpless before Mongolia's conquering armies.
In a few short years, your people's soldiers conquered most of China and Eastern Asia, and the empire continued to grow until it reached west into Europe and south to Korea.
Indeed, it was the greatest empire ever seen, dwarfing those pathetic conquests of the Romans or the Greeks.
= 강대한 몽골 제국의 천하무적의 황제, 위대하신 테무친을 뵈옵니다!
그대의 칼날은 성벽을 산산이 부수고 그 음성은 적들을 절망에 빠뜨릴 정도입니다.
칸이시여, 그대는 정복전쟁을 벌이던 북아시아 부족들을 강력한 신민으로 정복하시고 세계 그 누구도 이룩하지 못한 강력한 기병대를 만드셨습니다!
그 강력한 군사력은 몽골 군대가 도착하기도 전에 적들을 나약하고 무력하게 만들어 스스로 분열하게 만들 정도입니다.
단 몇 년 만에 그대의 군대는 중국과 아시아 전체를 정복하였습니다.
그리하여 제국은 서쪽으로는 유럽, 남쪽으로는 고려에 이를 정도로 넓어졌습니다.
이는 역사상 가장 큰 제국이며 로마나 그리스가 이룩한 것을 초라하게 만들 정도의 위업이십니다.
Temuujin, your people call upon you once more to lead them to battle and conquest.
Will the world once again tremble at the thunderous sound of your cavalry, sweeping down from the steppes?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 테무친이시여, 신민들은 다시 한 번 전쟁과 정복의 시대로 이끌어줄 지도자를 기다리고 있습니다!
대초원을 가르는 천둥 같은 말발굽 소리에 세계가 다시 한 번 두려움에 떨게 하고, 시대의 한계를 뛰어넘는 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 아즈텍
Welcome, O divine Montezuma!
We grovel in awe at your magnificence!
May the heaven shower all manner of good things upon you all the days of your life!
You are the leader of the mighty Aztec people, wandering nomads from a lost home in the north who in the 12th century came to live in the mesa central in the heart of what would come to be called Mexico.
Surrounded by many tribes fighting to control the rich land surrounding the sacred lakes of Texcoco, Xaltocan and Zampango, through cunning alliances and martial prowess, within a mere two hundred years, the Aztecs came to dominate the Central American basin, ruling a mighty empire stretching from sea to sea.
But the empire fell at last under the assault of foreign devils - the accursed Spaniards!
- wielding fiendish weapons the likes of which your faithful warriors had never seen.
= 성스러운 몬테수마여!
그대의 위엄 앞에 엎드려 절 하나이다!
그 앞날에 하늘의 축복이 가득하기를!
그대는 위대한 아즈텍의 지도자십니다.
아즈텍인은 북쪽의 고향을 잃고 유랑해온 유목민으로, 12세기에 훗날 멕시코가 될 땅의 중앙에 있는 메사센트랄에 정착했습니다.
아즈텍인은 성스러운 호수 텍스코코, 살로칸, 슴팡고 주위의 풍요로운 땅을 점령하기 위해 싸우는 여러 부족의 틈바구니에서, 절묘한 동맹과 뛰어난 무용으로써 중미 지역을 지배하고 바다에서 바다에 이르는 강대한 제국을 건설했습니다.
그러나 그대의 충직한 전사들은 결코 본 적 없는 악마 같은 무기를 휘두르는 외세의 악마, 저주받을 스페인의 공격에 쓰러졌고 아즈텍 제국은 마침내 몰락하고 말았습니다.
O great king Montezuma, your people call upon you once more, to rise up and lead them to glory, bring them wealth and power, and give them dominion over their foes and rivals.
Will you answer their call, glorious leader?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 위대한 왕 몬테수마여!
백성은 그대가 다시금 일어나 과거의 영광을 되찾아주리라 믿습니다!
백성에게 부와 권력을 안겨주고, 적을 지배할 힘을 주십시오!
백성의 믿음에 답하여 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 잉카
Oh ye who remakes the world, your loyal subjects greet you, King Pachacuti Sapa Inca, ruler of Tawantinsuyu and the Inca people!
From the beginnings in the small state of Cusco, the Incans displayed their potential for greatness, marching to war against their many enemies, crushing their armies into dust and carving for themselves a mighty empire stretching from Ecuador to Chile.
Indeed, they built the greatest empire ever seen in pre-Columbian America.
More than mere soldiers, your people were great builders and artists as well, and the remnants of their works still awe and inspire the world today.
= 세상을 다시 빚는 위대한 파차쿠티 왕이여, 그대의 충직한 신민이 경배하나이다!
그대는 잉카인의 통치자이십니다.
잉카인은 작은 나라 쿠스코에서 출발하여 수많은 적을 향해 진군하여 적군을 쳐부수고, 에콰도르에서 칠레에 이르는 강대한 제국을 건설함으로써 위대함을 증명했습니다.
이는 실로 콜럼버스 이전 아메리카 대륙에서 유례가 없는 대제국이었습니다.
잉카인은 전쟁뿐 아니라 건축과 예술에도 재능이 있어, 그 작품에 아직도 전 세계가 경탄합니다.
Oh King Pachacuti, truly are you called 'Earth Shaker'!
Will you once again call upon the ground itself to a fight at your side?
Your armies await your signal.
Will you restore the glory of your empire?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 그대는 진정한 '대지의 지배자'입니다, 파차쿠티 왕이여!
다시 한번 대지의 힘과 더불어 싸우시지 않겠습니까?
잉카군이 그대의 신호가 떨어지기만 기다리고 있습니다.
병사들이 그대의 명령만을 기다리고 있습니다.
옛 제국의 영광을 되찾아 주시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설할 수 있겠습니까?

 # 덴마크
Honor and glory be yours, Harald Bluetooth Gormsson, mighty heir of King Gorm of the Old and Thyra Dannebod.
Not only were you victorious on the battlefield against the armies of Norway, you also completed massive construction project across the land - numerous Ring Fortresses to protect the populace from invasion and internal strife.
You successfully drove off waves of German settlers in 983 AD and sheltered your kingdom from unwanted foreign influence.
= 위대한 고름 대왕과 튀레 다네보드의 후계자이신 하랄 블로탄 고름손에게 명예와 영광이 함께하기를.
당신은 노르웨이군과의 전투에서 승리하고 곳곳에 외적과 내분으로부터 백성을 보호할 원형 요새를 건설하였습니다.
또한 기원후 983년, 쇄도하던 게르만족 정착민을 물리쳐, 원치 않는 외세의 영향으로부터 왕국을 보호하였습니다.
Stalwart Viking, the time for greatness is upon you once more.
You are called to rise up and lead your people to renewed power and triumph!
Will you make the world shudder once more at the very thought of your great armies of Northsmen?
Will you let the Viking battle cry ring out across the crashing waves?
Will you build a civilization to stand the test of time?
= 강건한 바이킹 왕이시여, 다시금 그 위용을 떨칠 때가 찾아왔습니다.
다시 일어나 당신 백성을 새로운 영예와 승리로 이끄십시오!
온 세상이 북방의 군대를 생각만 해도 벌벌 떨게 만드십시오.
거친 파도를 넘어 바이킹의 함성이 온 세상에 울려 퍼지도록 하십시오.
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하십시오!

 # 훈족
Your men stand proudly to greet you, Great Attila, grand warrior and ruler of the Hunnic empire.
Together with your brother Bleda you expanded the boundaries of your empire, becoming the most powerful and frightening force of the 5th century.
You bowed the Eastern Roman Emperors to your will and took kingdom after kingdom along the Danube and Nisava Rivers.
As the sovereign ruler of the Huns, you marched your army across Europe into Gaul, planning to extend your already impressive lands all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.
Your untimely death led to the quick disintegration and downfall of your empire, but your name and deeds have created an everlasting legacy for your people.
= 훈 제국의 통치자이자 숭고한 전사인 아틸라여, 그대의 백성이 당당하게 일어나 그대를 맞이합니다.
그대는 형 블레다와 함께 제국의 경계를 확장하여 5세기 최강의 대제국을 건설했습니다.
동로마 제국 황제를 무릎 꿇리고 도나우 강과 니샤바 강을 따라 여러 왕국을 정복했습니다.
훈족의 군주인 그대는 이미 대서양까지 이어지는 영토 확장의 꿈을 품고 유럽을 통과해 갈리아까지 진군했습니다.
그대의 때아닌 죽음으로 제국은 끝내 와해되어 멸망하였으나, 그대의 이름과 업적은 훈족에게 영원한 유산으로 남았습니다.
Fearsome General, your people call for the recreation of a new Hunnic Empire, one which will make the exploits and histories of the former seem like the faded dreaming of a dying sun.
Will you answer their call to regain your rightful prominence and glory?
Will you mount your steadfast steed and lead your armies to victory?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 무시무시한 장군이여, 그대의 백성은 옛 제국의 공적과 역사가 죽어가는 태양의 빛바랜 꿈처럼 보이게 할 만큼 강대한 제국을 새로이 건설하고 싶어합니다.
그들의 부름에 응하여 다시금 그대의 용맹과 영광을 떨치겠습니까?
튼튼한 애마를 타고 군대를 승리로 이끌겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 네덜란드
Hail stalwart Prince William of Orange, liberator of the Netherlands and hero to the Dutch people.
It was your courageous effort in the 1568 rebellion against Spanish dominion that led the Dutch to freedom, and ultimately resulted in the Eighty Years' War.
Your undertaking allowed for the creation of one of Europe's first modern republics, the Seven United Provinces.
You gave your life to the rebellion, falling at the hands of an assassin in 1584, but your death would only serve to embolden the people's charge, and your legacy as \"Father of the Fatherland\" will stand as a symbol of Dutch independence for all time.
= 네덜란드의 해방자이자 영웅인 오렌지 공 윌리엄께 경배를!
당신은 1568년에 독립 전쟁을 일으켜 스페인의 지배로부터 네덜란드 해방을 이끌어내었으며 이후 80년에 걸친 전쟁을 펼쳤습니다.
당신은 유럽 최초의 현대 공화국인 네덜란드 연합 왕국 건국에 크게 이바지했습니다.
독립 전쟁에 인생을 바친 당신은 1584년에 암살되나 당신의 죽음은 국민의 기세를 더욱 강하게 만들 뿐이었습니다.
당신은 "조국의 아버지"로서 영원히 네덜란드 독립의 상징으로 남아 있습니다.
Brave prince, the people again yearn for the wise stewardship your wisdom afforded them.
Can you once again secure the sovereignty of your kingdom and lead your people to greatness?
Can you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 용감한 윌리엄 공이여.
국민은 당신의 지혜로운 관리를 다시금 갈망합니다.
다시 한 번 왕국의 주권을 지키고 국민을 번영으로 이끄시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 스웨덴
All hail the transcendent King Gustavus Adolphus, founder of the Swedish Empire and her most distinguished military tactician.
It was during your reign that Sweden emerged as one of the greatest powers in Europe, due in no small part to your wisdom, both on and off the battlefield.
As king, you initiated a number of domestic reforms that ensured the economic stability and prosperity of your people.
As the general who came to be known as the \"Lion of the North,\" your visionary designs in warfare gained the admiration of military commanders the world over.
Thanks to your triumphs in the Thirty Years' War, you were assured a legacy as one of history's greatest generals.
= 스웨덴 제국의 설립자이시자 최고의 군사 전략가이신 구스타부스 아돌푸스 왕께 경배를!
당신은 스웨덴을 유럽 최강 국가 중 하나로 성장시켰으며 전쟁터 안팎에서 유감없이 지혜를 발휘하셨습니다.
왕위에 오른 후 당신은 수많은 개혁 정책으로 경제적 안정과 번영을 이끌어냈습니다.
"북방의 사자"라 불린 장군이기도 한 당신은 뛰어난 전술과 선견지명으로 세계적으로 존경받는 군대 지휘자가 되었습니다.
30년 전쟁에서 승리한 당신은 역사상 가장 뛰어난 장군 중 하나로 남았습니다.
Oh noble King, the people long for your prudent leadership, hopeful that once again they will see your kingdom rise to glory.
Will you devise daring new strategies, leading your armies to victory on the theater of war?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 고귀한 왕이시여, 백성은 당신의 사려 깊은 지도를 기대하며 다시 왕국이 영광을 되찾기를 희망합니다.
과감한 새 전략을 고안하여 스웨덴군을 승리로 이끄시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 오스트리아
Noble and virtuous Queen Maria Theresa, Holy Roman Empress and sovereign of Austria, the people bow to your gracious will.
Following the death of your father King Charles VI, you ascended the thone of Austria during a time of great instability, but the empty coffers and diminished military did litle to dissuade your ambitions.
Faced with war almost immediately upon your succession to the throne, you managed to fend off your foes, and in naming your husband Francis Stephen co-ruler, assured your place as Empress of the Holy Roman Empire.
During your reigh, you guided Austria on a new path of reform - strengthening the military, replenishing the treasury, and improving the educational system of the kingdom.
= 신성로마제국의 여황이자 오스트리아의 군주이신 고귀하고 고결한 마리아 테레지아 여왕이시여.
모든 백성이 당신의 자애로운 명령에 순종하나이다.
부왕 카를 6세께서 서거하신 후 시국이 매우 불안정한 와중에 왕위에 오르셨으나, 텅 빈 국고와 줄어든 군사력은 당신의 야망을 꺾기엔 너무나도 작은 문제에 지나지 않습니다.
명목상의 공동 통치자이자 부군이신 프란츠 슈테판을 내세워 신성로마제국의 여황 자리를 확립하시고, 즉위 후 바로 전쟁에 임하시어 적들을 물리치셨습니다.
당신의 통치 아래서 오스트리아는 군사력 증강, 국고 보충, 교육 체계 개선 등을 이루며 재건의 길을 걸어갑니다.
Oh great queen, bold and dignified, the time has come for you to rise and guide the kingdom once again.
Can you return your people to the height of prosperity and splendor?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 용기와 위엄을 한데 갖추신 위대한 여황이시여.
왕국을 다시 되살릴 때가 왔습니다.
당신의 백성을 번영과 영광으로 이끌어 주시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 카르타고
Blessings and salutations to you, revered Queen Dido, founder of the legendary kingdom of Carthage.
Chronicled by the words of the great poet Virgil, your husband Acerbas was murdered at the hands of your own brother, King Pygmalion of Tyre, who subsequently claimed the treasures of Acerbas that were now rightfully yours.
Fearing the lengths from which your brother would pursue this vast wealth, you and your compatriots sailed for new lands.
Arriving on the shores of North Africa, you tricked the local king with the simple manipulation of an ox hide, laying out a vast expanse of territory for your new home, the future kingdom of Carthage.
= 전설적인 왕국 카르타고를 건국하신 존경받는 여왕 디도께 축복과 찬사가 있기를.
위대한 시인 베르길리우스의 서사시에 따르면 당신의 부군 아케르바스는 그의 재산을 탐내는 티레의 왕 피그말리온, 즉 당신 오라버니의 손에 목숨을 잃었다 합니다.
그의 막대한 재산을 얻기 위해 오라버니가 벌인 만행을 두려워한 당신은 동료를 모아 새로운 땅으로 떠나셨습니다.
북아프리카 해안에 도착한 당신은 그 지역의 통치자를 소가죽을 사용한 지혜로 압도하여 넓은 토지를 획득하시고 미래의 카르타고 왕국을 세울 기반을 마련하셨습니다.
Clever and inquisitive Dido, the world longs for a leader who can provide a shelter from the coming storm, guided by brilliant intuition and cunning.
Can you lead the people in the creation of a new kingdom to rival that of once mighty Carthage?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 지혜롭고 호기심 많은 디도시여.
뛰어난 직감과 지혜로 앞으로 다가올 폭풍우를 막아낼 수 있는 지도자가 필요하옵니다.
과거의 강력한 카르타고와 견줄 만한 새로운 왕국을 만드시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 비잔틴
All hail the most magnificent and magnanimous Empress Theodora, beloved of Byzantium and of Rome!
From the lowly ranks of actress and courtesan you became the most powerful woman in the Roman Empire, consort to Justinian I.
Starting in the late 520's AD, you joined your husband in a series of important spiritual and legal reforms, creating many laws which elevated the status of and promoted equal treatment of women in the empire.
You also aided in the restoration and construction of many aqueducts, bridges, and churches across Constantinople, culminating in the creation of the Hagia Sophia, one of the most splendid architectural wonders of the world.
= 비잔티움과 로마의 연인, 위대하고 자비로운 테오도라 여제께 경배를!
그대는 배우와 매춘부들로 이루어진 틈바구니에서 일어나, 유스티니아누스 1세 폐하의 아내가 되어 로마 제국 최고의 여인으로 우뚝 섰습니다.
520년대 후반부터 그대는 황제와 함께 정신적, 법적 개혁을 추진하여 제국 내 여성의 지위를 높이고 여성의 평등한 대우를 장려하는 법을 제정했습니다.
또한 콘스탄티노플 전역의 수로와 다리, 교회를 복구하고 건설하는 데 일조하여 마침내 세계에서 가장 아름다운 건축물 중 하나인 성 소피아 대성당이 태어났습니다.
Beautiful Empress, Byzantium is in need of your wisdom and strength - her people are lost without your light to lead them.
The Byzantine Empire may have fallen once, but its spirit is still intact waiting to be reborn anew.
Can you return Byzantium to the heights of glory it once enjoyed?
Can you create a civilization to stand the test of time?
= 아름다운 여제여.
비잔티움에는 그대의 지혜와 힘이 필요합니다.
백성은 그대를 잃고서 어둠 속을 방황하고 있습니다.
비잔틴 제국은 몰락하였으나 그 정신은 아직도 온전히 남아 다시 태어나기를 기다리고 있습니다.
비잔티움을 다시금 한때 누렸던 영광의 정점으로 되돌리고, 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설해 주시겠습니까?

 # 켈트
Eternal glory and praise for you, fierce and vengeful Warrior Queen!
In a time dominated by men, you not only secured your throne and sovereign rule, but also successfully defied the power of the Roman Empire.
After suffering terrible punishment and humiliation at the hand of the Roman invaders, you rallied your people in a bloody and terrifying revolt.
Legions fell under your chariot wheels and the city of London burned.
While in the end the Romans retained ownership of the isles, you alone made Nero consider withdrawing all troops and leaving Britain forever.
= 용맹하고 강인한 여왕께 영원한 영광과 찬미를!
그대는 남자가 지배하는 세상에서 왕좌와 통치권을 손에 넣었을 뿐 아니라 로마 제국의 위세에 도전하였습니다.
또한 로마 침략군의 손에 끔찍한 고통과 모욕을 당하고도 백성을 규합하여 무시무시한 혁명을 일으켰습니다.
로마 군단병이 그대의 전차 바퀴 아래 스러지고 런던 시는 불타올랐습니다.
끝내 로마군을 브리튼 섬에서 몰아내지는 못하였으나 네로 황제가 철군하여 영영 브리튼을 떠날까 고민한 것은 순전히 그대 때문이었습니다.
Oh sleeping lioness, your people desire that you rise and lead them again in the calling that is your namesake.
Will you meet their challenge on the open field and lead the Celts to everlasting victory?
Will you restore your lands and build an empire to stand the test of time?
= 잠자는 암사자여.
켈트족은 그대가 돌아와 다시금 켈트족을 이끌어주시기를 바라고 있습니다.
이 시련을 받아들여 켈트족을 영원한 승리로 이끌겠습니까?
잃어버린 영토를 되찾아 세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 에티오피아
Blessings be upon you, honorable and righteous Emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie.
Your legacy as one of Ethiopia's greatest rulers, and as the spiritual leader to the Rastafarian movement, is outshone only by the influence you had on diplomacy and political cooperation throughout the world.
In introducing Ethiopia's first written constitution, you planted the seeds of democracy that would take root over the coming years, and your infinitely wise grasp of global affairs secured Ethiopia's place as a charter member of the United Nations.
Spearheading efforts to reform and modernize the nation during your reign, you changed the course of Ethiopian history forever
= 에티오피아의 명예롭고 공정한 황제 하일레 셀라시에께 축복이 있기를.
에티오피아에서 제일 위대한 지도자이자 래스터패리 운동의 영적 지도자인 당신은 전 세계적인 외교와 정치 협력을 이끌어내셨습니다.
에티오피아의 첫 성문 헌법을 제정함으로써 에티오피아에 민주주의의 씨앗을 심었고 지혜롭게 국제 문제에 대처하여 에티오피아를 국제연합 창설 회원국 위치에 올려놓으셨습니다.
국가 재건과 근대화의 최전선에서 노력한 당신은 에티오피아의 역사가 나갈 방향을 영원히 바꾸어 놓으셨습니다.
Revered king, your composed demeanor once protected the people from the many conflicts that plague the nations of men, and the kingdom looks to you to assure peace once again.
Will you lead the people with courage and authority, moving forward into a new age?
Will you build a civilization that stands the test of time?
= 존경받는 황제시여.
당신은 침착하게 대처하여 국민을 괴롭히는 수많은 투쟁을 막아내셨습니다.
이제 왕국은 당신이 다시 한 번 평화를 지켜 주기를 바라옵니다.
용기와 권위를 가지고 국민을 이끌어 새로운 시대를 향해 전진하시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?

 # 마야
Your people kneel before you, exalted King Pacal the Great, favored son of the gods and shield to the citizens of the Palenque domain.
After years of strife at the hands of your neighboring rivals, you struck back at the enemies of your people, sacrificing their leaders in retribution for the insults dealt to your predecessors.
The glory of Palenque was restored only by the guidance afforded by your wisdom, as you orchestrated vast reconstruction efforts within the city, creating some of the greatest monuments and architecture your people - and the world - have ever known.
= 신들의 총애받는 자손이시며 팔렝케 시민의 수호자인 파칼 대왕이시여, 그대 앞에 백성 모두 무릎 꿇나이다.
당신은 적들에 맞서 싸워 이웃 경쟁자들과의 분쟁을 종결시켰으며 그들의 지도자를 제물로 바쳐 선조를 모욕한 죄에 응징을 가하셨습니다.
도시의 대규모 재건을 통하여 전 세계를 통틀어서도 그 위대함을 견줄 데 없는 유적들을 세우신 당신의 지혜가 없었다면 팔렝케의 영광도 없었을 겁니다.
Illustrious King, your people once again look to you for leadership and counsel in the coming days.
Will you channel the will of the gods and restore your once proud kingdom to its greatest heights?
Will you build new monuments to forever enshrine the memories of your people?
Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?
= 걸출한 왕이시여.
백성은 당신의 미래를 향한 충고와 지도를 다시금 바라나이다.
신들의 뜻을 받들어 위대한 왕국을 재건하시겠습니까?
왕국의 존재를 영원히 역사에 남길 만한 새 유적을 지으시겠습니까?
세월의 시련을 이겨낼 문명을 건설하겠습니까?